in 1905, a change in his style was brought about.
Engelmann had come in touch with the Secession and
gradually the essential ideas of this
group gained
control over his thoughts. After exceedingly seri-
ous study he produced, in 1906, “The Woman with
the Gloves.” The face and hair are modeled with
the simplest surfaces; the lines meet in severe an-
gles and the broad sleeves which offered opportunity
for a tumult of folds and carvings, are unmoved save
for a few incisions at the joints modified by the
horizontal position of the lower arm.
Previous to this, a sketch for “A Resting Woman”
had been created. Engelmann happened to see a
very
sick woman with relaxed limbs just before her
death, and he was so strongly impressed that he
made his sketch, which an architect friend asked him
to reproduce in stone for the garden of his mother
in Osnabrueck. The three factors of the study, “The
Woman with the Gloves,” the object of the dying
woman and the commission of the architect, com-
billed to form the turning point in Engelmann’s ca-
reer; and in “The Resting Woman” Engelmann’s
true self is revealed; from this time on his ways point
toward mature works of beauty and
greatness.
Want Assistant Inspector of Engineering Material.
The United States Civil Service Commission an-
nounces an
open competitive examination for assist-
ant inspector of engineering material (aircraft), for
men only. Vacancies occurring in the Office of In-
spector of Engineering Material at Boston, Mass.,
Brooklyn, N. Y., and Pittsburgh, Pa., at $4.48 to $5.04
per diem, and in positions requiring similar qualifi-
cations at any navy yard or other naval establishment
of the United States will be filled from this examina-
tion, unless it is found in the interest of the service
to fill any vacancy by reinstatement, transfer, or pro-
motion.
There are at present six vacancies, namely, one at
Boston, two at Brooklyn, and three at Buffalo, N. Y.,
in the Pittsburgh district.
In filling vacancies certification will be made of
the highest eligibles residing in the vicinity of the
place at which the appointee is to be employed, ex-
cept that upon the request of th department certifi-
cation will be made of the highest eligibles on the
register for the entire country who have expressed
willingness to accept appointment where the vacancy
exists.
The duties of this position will consist in requir-
ing contractors to carry out plans and specifications
prepared by the Navy Department for machinery
and material used in connection with air
planes for
the United States Navy and passing upon tests of
such machinery and material.
Competitors will not be required to report for ex-
amination at any place, but will be rated on the fol-
lowing subjects, which will have the relative weights
indicated, on a scale of 100: (1) General and techni-
cal education, 40; (2) experience, 60.
Applicants must be capable of preparing reports
and of interpreting plans as presented in blue prints
and specifications. They should have a thorough
knowledge of the assembly and operation of gas
engines in
general and particularly of those types of
engines used in air planes. They should
possess par-
ticular knowledge of air craft and of the character
of material which enters into air-craft construction
and should be familiar with the methods and process-
es used by manufacturers in air-craft construction.
One year’s experience as a machinist in a fac*
tory constructing gas engines for automobiles or ail
planes, or as an inspector of air-plane or automobile
engines or one year’s actual experience in flying is a
prerequisite for consideration for this
position.
Under the first subject a rating of 70 per cent will
The Sleeping One.
Richard Engelmann, Sculptor.
Resting Woman. —Fountain Figure.
Richard Engelmann, Sculptor.
35
SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
