businesses, and will put the cards in prominent loca-
tions in their show windows, especially as they have
no trouble or expense in getting them printed. Some
of the larger stores will have their own sign painters
use the phrase “Buy a Home” on every card they
display in their show windows during “Buy a Home”
week. Don’t use the name of the real estate board
on any
of these cards—keep the real estate end of
the campaign in the background. The sign painter
will charge about 20 cents each for getting out these
cards.
5. Get the street car company .to jiut* L.-Buy a
Home” cards for the week on the‘front end,* qf* each
car. If an advertising controls the privi-
lege, possibly you can aff<nr
d:to, pavt them; ?ts it hf
excellent advertising.
6. Have a quantity of yellow 6x6-inch cards with
“Buy a Home” in red painted diagonally across on
each side, and a hole punched in the
upper corner.
Insert strings and hang them on the radiator of every
automobile
you can induce to carry them during the
week in question.
7. Get busy at once with
your
electric light,
water and gas companies, and they will print “Buy
a Home” in red ink on their
May bills. Take this
up at once.
8. At a cost of 15 or 20 cents each, you can have
“Buy a Home” rubber stamps made for each real
estate firm, and let them stamp each of their May
bills with it. It can also be used effectively on let-
ter heads and envelopes.
9. Get all of your newspapers, daily and weekly,
to write “Buy a Home” editorials, and get the re-
porters to show their ingenuity by writing attractive
stories of the campaign.
10. Get all the real estate men to do extra news-
paper advertising that week, all of them featuring
“Buy a Home” bargains and urging the advantages
of home ownership. The newspapers will gladly run
“Buy a Home” streamers across the top of the real
estate page. The advertising solicitors can be of
great assistance in getting up attractive displays.
11. It would be
very appropriate for the wo-
men's clubs to talk “Buy a Home” during that
week, especially as the women are nearly always the
inspiration of home ownership.
12. By all means get every
real estate broker
and salesman enthusiastic on “Buy a Home.” One
of the best effects of this or any other advertising
campaign is on the advertiser himself, and
every
salesman should have carefully planned just what he
intends to accomplish during “Buy a Home” week.
If the individual doesn’t put any thought or effort
into the campaign, he isn’t
going to get anything
out of it. On the other hand, if he does put into it
enthusiasm and intelligent study, we'll guarantee
good results.
Augusta to Have Builders’ Exchange.
A hundred and fifty men representing every line
of building activity in the city of Augusta, Ga., met
in an enthusiastic meeting recently for the purpose of
forming the Augusta Builders’ Exchange.
Mr. Joe T. Lawrence of the McKenzie Building
Company presided over the meeting.
Mr. T. T. Flagler of Atlanta, the state commis-
sioner of the National Association of Builders’ Ex-
changes, made a most interesting talk on the work
accomplished by the national association and told of
its rapid growth in recent years. This association
now numbers over 9,000 members in the United
States. In his talk Mr. Flagler emphasized the fact
Thai co-operation was absolutely necessary in the in-
terests of the allied building trades were to be con-
served.
Following Mr. Flagler, Mr. Dan Carey, the secre-
tary of the Atlanta Builders’ Association addressed
the meeting and in a very pleasing way
outlined the
work of the Atlanta association. There were none
present who were not convinced
by his talk that Au-
gusta stood badly in need of such an organization
and a great deal of enthusiasm was aroused among
the men present. At this point slips of application
for membership were passed around largely signed
by men who will be charter members of the new as-
sociation. The membership in the association is open
to all firms and individuals who are in any way con-
nected with building.
Mr. F. E. Gibson of the Woodward Lumber Com-
pany spoke of the
necessity of organization if the
building trades of Augusta were to protect them-
selves. He endorsed the plan heartily and pledged
the full support of his
company.
Short talks were
also made
by Mr. McNeil of the Whitney-McNeil
Electric Company, Mr. E. J. Erbelding. and Mr. Brill
of the Brill Electric Company.
The meeting was then adjourned to meet at a later
date to
organize and take
up
the question of the elec-
tion of a secretary for the new organization.
Architects
Coming to Atlanta.
Upon the invitation from the Georgia chapter, the
Convention bureau and others, the executive commit-
tee of the American Institute of Architects selected
Atlanta as the next meeting place of their committee.
After entertaining President John Lawrence Mauran
at the convention of the Builders’ exchanges in Feb-
ruary, Atlanta had no difficulty in securing the meet-
ing. President Mauran has written Mayor Candler
that the committee “is looking forward to the en-
joyment of Atlanta’s matchless climate and hospi-
tality.” The meeting will probably be held this
month, and will attract about two hundred architects
from the southeastern states.
28 SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
