secretary of the United States Civil Service Board,
post office, Boston, Mass., Philadelphia, Pa., Atlanta,
Ga., Cincinnati, Ohio, Chicago, 111., St. Paul, Minn.,
Seattle, Wash., San Francisco, Cal.; customhouse,
New York, N. Y., New Orleans, La., Honolulu, Ha-
waii
;
old customhouse, St. Louis, Mo.; Administra-
tion Building, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone; or to
the chairman of the Porto Rican Civil Service Com-
mission, San Juan, P. R. Applications should be
properly executed, excluding the medical certificate,
and should be filed with the Commission at Washing-
ton as soon as possible. The exact title of the exam-
ination as given at the head of this announcement
should be stated in the application form.
Demand for Bathtubs and Plumbing Supplies in
Bogota.
The consulate at Barranquilla, Colombia, is ad-
vised that there is a large number of houses being
built or remodeled continually in Bogota and that
there is a good demand for all kinds of modern
plumbing fixtures, bathtubs, and steam and hot-
water fittings, and an opportunity for an American
plumbing shop with trained men. It is reported that
the nafive plumbers do not give satisfaction, prob-
ably due to the absence of modern methods, and
that an American establishment with an attractive
showroom of modern fixtures would doubtless meet
with success.
(The consul transmitted the name of a person
in
Bogota with whom interested persons may corres-
pond, the address of whom can be obtained at the
Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce or its dis-
trict or co-operative offices. Refer to file No. 85783.)
Plans of Metal Lath Association.
Announcement has just been made by the Publici-
ty Bureau of the Associated Metal Lath Manufactur-
ers that their offices have been moved from Chicago to
Room 901 Swetlancl Building, Cleveland. Ohio, and
that Zenas W. Carter, formerly of Boston, has been
appointed Commissioner, to supervise all their pub-
licity, promotion and investigation from the Cleve-
land office.
Mr. Zenas W. Carter has been manager for manu-
facturers’ associations for the past ten years, direct-
ing co-operative publicity and promotion work be-
tween manufacturers, distributors and consumers.
He was the first General Secretary of the Electric
Development Association when it was incorporated in
New England, and he has managed the publicity and
vi ■-■ *■!...
field promotion and investigation work of the Granite
Paving Block Manufacturers’ Association of the
United States since their organization two and a
half years ago.
Among the plans of the Metal Lath Association
which are yet in the embryo is a co-operative na-
tional campaign of publicity which will be developed
by the Council of Advertising Managers of the mem-
ber companies, which Council is an active part of the
Publicity Bureau of the Manufacturers’ organization,
although the Publicity Bureau proper includes offi-
cials and sales managers of the companies interested.
Their plans cover a series of extensive and exhaust-
ive tests of the fire resistance properties of metal
lath, its use in fire retarding construction, the ex-
ploitation to architects and the public of the saving
in space which can be effected through the use of this
material, its vermin and rodent proofness; investiga-
tion and assistance in the revision of building codes
of cities so that metal lath will receive its
proper
recognition by city officials and engineers, and a co-
operative movement in the distributing centers of
the United States seeking to develop co-operative
promotion work on the part of the jobbers and large
distributors of metal lath.
The Advertising Managers who comprise the Ad-
vertising Council of the Publicity Bureau of the As-
sociated Metal Lath Manufacturers are :
Mr. C. 0. Powell, president, Northwestern Ex-
panded Metal Company.
Mr. S. E. Fechheimer, Trussed Concrete Steel
Company.
Mr. R. M. Nicholson, Berger Manufacturing Com-
pany.
Mr. C. M. Stewart, Consolidated Expanded Metal
Companies.
Mr. L. E. Fisher, General Fireproofing Company.
Mr. L. J. Rouleau, Penn Metal Company.
Mr. F. E. Ericksen, Milwaukee Corrugating Com-
pany.
Mr. Wm. Geo.
Lane, secretary, The Bostwick
Steel Lath Company.
Mr. Zenas W. Carter, Commissioner.
The Julian Armstrong Bureau of Related Indus-
tries will continue its special work for the Associat-
ed Metal Lath Manufacturers, and Mr. Walter L.
Weeden, of Worcester, Massachusetts, has succeed-
ed Mr. Carter, as field
secretary of the Granite Pav-
ing Block Manufacturers’ Association, of Boston.
Non-Combustible Roofing
A non-coinbustible
rooting measure has been ap-
proved by the city council of Meridian, Miss. It pro-
vides that after June 1, all new houses and those
re-covered shall be covered with non-combustible
material. It is provided that where repairs are de-
sired for existing roofs after June 1, permits will be
granted if they are 50 per cent good. New buildings
and new roofs are permitted to have wooden rafters
and sheeting.
38 SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
