TYV VERY right-minded person feels a sense of pride
■*—J
in a beautiful, imposing structure which adds
a harmonious note to its environment and causes the
stranger within our gates to pause, stand still and
admire.
The influence of such a structure, be it large or
small, mansion or cottage, is deeper and more endur-
ing than that of printed description or of glowing
advertisement because it is more deliberately re-
ceived, and itself is its own interpreter.
In the development of civic pride such an asset is
no mere accident. It is the expression of both the ar-
tistic and the mechanical instinct and has a cultural
value. Whether the structure adorns in stately fash-
ion some corner on a busy, business thoroughfare,
or whether as private home or municipal grouping,
crowns in classic style some knoll of Nature’s handi-
work hard by, or some scenic boulevard or lake front,
or whether it graces rustic surroundings in some out-
lying suburb, if it is attractive in design, consistent
with the
purpose
for which it was built, and durable
in character, such a group bears an uplifting message
to every
beholder.
About the first thing to which the attention of
tourists is invited, upon their visit to any
of the
great
cities of this continent or of the ancient capitals of
Europe, is some historic building or grouping or ar-
chitectural triumph which distinguishes that particu-
lar community.
But along before such a structure began to take
visible form it existed first as an invisible idea, in the
imagination of some master mind, although the mul-
titude of details necessary to produce the finished
product of that mind-image may never have been
contemplated nor comprehended in the original
source of the idea.
Some one had to be able to estimate and assem-
ble all the elements entering into the structure, each
in its proper place and proportion. In this process
it first took visible form in pencil sketches, skillfully
drawn designs, accurately scaled and scientifically, as
well as artistically proportioned. Here art and sci-
ence were requisitioned to bring into completeness
The Architect and the Community
Prevents Expensive Blunders.
the structure desired to fulfill a great civic, inspired
human purpose.
Not an accident nor scintilla of chance in the
whole scheme, but the demonstration of scientific
skill belonging to but one profession, and of that pro-
fession one sees but little in public print. Like that
of law and medicine, the architect’s profession is on
a non-competitive basis, has its abode in the intellect,
requiring years of education and special prepara-
tion
along established standards, and consequently is
never advertised in the commonly accepted sense of
the term.
But the value of the architect is known and real-
ized by every person who is wise in building opera-
tions. His advice is valuable concerning the proper-
ty upon which you intend to build; in choosing the
right spot for the structure, and even the real estate
itself, which, under the improvement contemplated,
is
expected to yield profitable returns, is in many in-
stances chosen solely upon the advice of an architect.
He understands how to translate the sun’s rays
into cash value. Certain conditions of your structure
demand sunlight and ventilation. Upon scientifically
considering the relationship of its proportions to
sun exposure and average
wind
pressure, keeping
constantly in view the artistic effects of the structure,
the architect designs to a minuteness just the proper
court areas.
Times without number he has discovered at a
glance that a certain lot, upon
which it was the in-
tention of the owner to build for rental purposes, was
far less advantageously situated for such purposes
than the owner had thought on account of having an
alley, which conditions required larger interior
courts and cut down the usable area of ground.
And this in the nick of time when the contractor-
builder. in this respect an untrained
man, was going
right ahead on plans he had himself furnished free
of charge as part of the deal, thereby saving the own-
er of the lot a few dollars for the time being, but at
the cost of perpetual disappointment and infinitely
heavier loss on the whole investment.
Plans of untrained men never
develop into effect-
