New Faces This Month.
The attention of our readers is directed to these
new advertisements appearing this month, all rep-
resentative in their several lines and worthy the
patronage of those interested :
Rogers Brothers Company, Albion, Pa., are manu-
facturers of automobile trailers for every purpose
and are made for service.
They are idea for build-
ing contractors. The company has distributing agen-
cies in
principal cities. Ask for their catalogue.
Keil-Dellow Mfg. Co., Plainview, Nebraska, are
manufacturers of the Keil automatic saw filing ma-
chine which is used by carpenters and builders in all
parts of the country.
M. L. Schlueter, 225 W. Illinois St., Chicago,
make the “Improved” rapid floor surfacer. There
are more than 20,000 in use. Ask for illustrated cat-
alogue and prices.
D. and T. Mfg. Co., 1911-13 Pine St., St. Louis,
Mo., make a system of hot water heating which is
endorsed by the leading architects and heating en-
gineers. Ask for booklet fully describing this sys-
tem.
Wallace B. Crumb, Forestville, Conn., is the man-
ufacturer of Crumb’s Warriner
patent chain
hang-
ing cattle stanchion. Ask for booklet.
Bowlus Mfg. Co., Springfield, Ohio, make the
“Bowlus” automatic water closets, which are posi-
tive in operation. Write your jobber for prices.
Medusa White Portland Cement.
Photographic reproductions of dwellings and
other buildings in which Medusa White Portland Ce-
ment has been used are contained in a new catalog
issued by the Sandusky Cement Company, 624 En-
gineers Building, Cleveland, Ohio, and entitled “Me-
dusa White Portland Cement.” Interesting informa-
tion is presented concerning stucco and its various
finishes. A table of colors gives the pounds of color
required for each hag of cement in order to secure
either light or medium shades. There is also given
some information about concrete building blocks,
ornamental work, etc.
Economy Chemical Closet.
A chemical closet is one of the most necessary
conveniences in rural communities when there is no
public sewerage, as it replaces the so often condemn-
ed privy. One of the types of closet which has met
with popular approval is the Economy Chemical
Closet, manufactured by the Sanitary Chemical Clos-
et Co., Hillsdale, Mich. Tt covers a floor space 14 x
21 in., and is 17 in. high, being made from rust-proof
galvanized metal, enameled inside and out. At the
Trade Notes of Interest
back of the container is provided a place to keep
the chemical and toilet paper. Each closet is guar-
anteed. A booklet illustrating and describing this
convenience and entitled “Economy Chemical Clos-
et,” is being distributed by the company.
Its ad-
vantages and construction are set
forth, together
with illustrated descriptions of various
ways
in which
it
may
be installed, and also illustrations and price
list of parts which unusual installations may re-
quire.
Now Carry Line Stock Mill Work
Philip Gruner & Bros. Lumber Co., of 4004 N.
Broadway, St. Louis, Mo., have recently taken over a
complete line of stock mill work, thus putting them-
selves in a position of being able to furnish a com-
plete building job. Prices will be quoted f. o. b.
anywhere.
Keil Saw Filing Machine.
The Keil Saw Filing machine is one of the wonders
of the
age. Mr. J. L. Keil, general superintendent of
the plant of Keil-Dedlow Manufacturing Co., at
Plainview, Nebraska, is the inventor of the machine
and it was his aim to make a machine to file all kinds
of saws, and after years of labor and thousands of
dollars
expense, has for carpenters and wood-work-
ing mechanics a machine that will file saws from four
to fourteen teeth to the inch—absolutely correct.
Carpenters and others are to ask for further informa-
tion about this machine.
Removal Notice.
The
headquarters of the Oak Flooring Manufac-
turers' Association and the Oak Flooring Service
Bureau, formerly at 1362 Conway Building, Chicago,
is now located at 1603 Union Trust Building, Cin-
cinnati, Ohio.
Valuable Booklet Issued.
The Sandusky Cement Co., 626 Engineers’ Build-
ing. Cleveland, Ohio, has recently issued a valuable
booklet of “Tables
Giving the Quantities of Material
required in Concrete Construction.” This is arrang-
ed so as to be most handy for architects, engineers,
contractors and cement users and the information
therein is most concise and accurate. The booklet
will be sent to readers of the Southern Architect and
Building News on request.
A Handsome Furnace Catalogue.
Catalogue No. 39 has been recently issned by F.
Meyer & Bro. Co., Peoria, 111. They are not distribut-
