Write Us a Letter.
We want our readers to feel that The
Southern Architect and Building News is
their paper,
and that what interests them
interests its publishers and subscribers. We
will therefore appreciate most highly any
communications, experiences or suggestions,
or marked copies of local papers containing
items of news pertaining to the interests of
the fraternity.
Architect Opens Additional Office.
J. F. Leitner, architect, who has been established
at Wilmington, N. C., for 11 years, has opened an ad-
ditional office in Atlanta, Ga., with headquarters in
the Healey Bldg. From the Atlanta office Mr. Leit-
ner will take care of business originating in the ex-
treme Southeastern States, while business from the
middle South will be handled at his Wilmington of-
fice.
New Partnership Formed
William T. Warren and Eugene H. Knight, both
well-known architects have formed a partnership for
the practice of architecture, with offices in the Em-
pire Building, Birmingham, Ala.
Architect Ware Dead.
'William Roth Ware, an architect, and for many
years
editor of the American Architect and Building
News, died March 28. He was 68
years
old and was
widely known as a writer on architectural subjects.
Mr. E. J. Putnam—An Appreciation.
On March 7, Rock Products and Building Mate-
rials printed this tribute to our fellow townsman, Mr.
E. J. Putnam, which we are pleased to reproduce be-
cause of his wide popularity in this territory:
Edward Jeness Putnam, the new GF waterproof-
ing manager for the Southern GF Co., of Atlanta,
Ga., was born in Cleveland. Ohio, some time prior to
the Spanish-American war. As a boy he started
working in an architect’s office and intended making
architecture his life work. However, lie soon found
himself in an engineering school in Cleveland study-
ing civil engineering. This did not last long, for the
call of architecture was too strong to resist, and he en-
tered the building game, where he has been ever
since. He has handled various lines and occupied
various positions—from “Knight of the Road” to
the “sales
manager’s throne.” He has been manager
of the supply department of large building organi-
zations. For the
past ten years he has been promot-
ing and performing missionary work throughout the
South for various lines of building products. He has
put several new products on the map in virgin terri-
tory, which is only small evidence of “Put’s” abil-
ity. By his genial manner, vast knowledge of South-
ern building conditions and his spirit of helpfulness,
he has made a wide and valued acquaintance among
architects, engineers and contractors. “Put” has
many nick-names. Throughout the South he made
“Kore-Lock” famous and next to “Put” he is most
widely known as “Kore-Lock” Putnam—the man
with the iron jaw.” For the past four
years he has
been connected with Trus-Con Laboratories as dis-
trict director. At present, as stated in the begin-
ning, he is with the Southern GF Co., of Atlanta.
Ga., as manager of the GF waterproofing department
for nine big southern states. Mr. Putnam will have
complete charge of GF
waterproofing in Southern
territory. He is
exceptionally well fitted for this
particular work. The General
Fireproofing Co. al-
ready has an enviable reputation for
quality in this
line and the addition of Mr. Putnam will assist ma-
terially in placing GF
waterproofings, concrete har-
deners and wall coatings in this territory. Ilis thor-
ough knowledge of
waterproofing conditions, togeth-
er with his reputation as an eminent authority in his
line give him good welcome among all architects and
engineers throughout the South.
Edw. Jeness Putnam,
Waterproofing Manager, Southern GF Co., Atlanta, Ga.
45
SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
