si
on, San Juan, P. R. Applications should be
proper-
ly executed, excluding the medical and county of-
ficer s certificates, and filed with the Commission at
Y ashington without delay. The exact title of the
examination as given at the head of this announce-
ment should be stated in the application form
Want Architectural Draftsman.
The United States Civil Service Commission an-
nounces an open competitive examination for archi-
tectural draftsman, for men only. From the register
of eligibles resulting from this examination certi-
fication will be made to fill a considerable number
of vacancies in this position in the Bureau of Yards
and Docks, Navy Department, Washington, D. C„
and at navy yards and other naval establishments of
the United States, at salaries ranging from $3.04 to
$6 per diem.
In filling vacancies in
navy yards and other naval
establishments certification will be made of the high-
est eligibles residing in the vicinity of the place at
which the
appointee is to be employed, except that
upon the request of the Navy Department certifica-
tion will be made of the highest eligibles on the reg-
ister for the entire
country who have expressed will-
ingness to accept appointment where the vacancy
exists.
The duties of these positions will be architectural
drafting and the preparation of working drawings,
specifications, and details.
Competitors will not be required to report for
examination at any place, but will be rated on the
following subjects, which will have the relative
weights indicated, on a scale of 100: (1) Education
and preliminary training, 40; (2) experience, 60.
Competitors who fail to attain a rating of at least
70 per cent under the subject of experience will not
be considered for appointment.
In rating the subject of experience, the degree
of difficulty and importance of the work performed,
the length of experience, and the rating which an ap-
plicant has had as a draftsman or workman will be
considered.
Statements as to education, training, and experi-
ence are accepted subject to verification.
Applicants must not have reached their fiftieth
birthday on the date of filing application.
Until further notice, owing to the lack of eligibles,
the number of appointments to be made, and the ur-
gent needs of the service, applications will be receiv-
ed at any time, and the papers will be rated imme-
diately upon their receipt in order that appointments
may
be made with the least possible delay.
The register of eligibles will he divided into four
grades, the compensation and minimum require-
ments for each grade being as follows:
Grade 1, $3.04 to $3.84 per
diem—
Applicants must have the education, training, and
experience as specified in one of the following
groups:
(a) Graduation from a four years’ high school or
four full
years of study in a school offering a course
equivalent to that of a high school, and two years
of
architectural drafting.
(b) Two
years of technical school training and
one year of architectural drafting.
(c) Three
years of architectural drafting.
Grade 2, $4 to $5.04 per diem—
Applicants must have the education, training, and
experience as specified in one of the following
groups:
(a) Graduation in an architectural course from
a college of
recognized standing and two years of
architectural drafting.
(b) Two years of technical school training and
three
years
of architectural drafting.
(c) Five years of architectural drafting.
Grade 3, $5.28 to $6 per diem—
Applicants must have the education, training,
and experience as specified in one of the follow-
ing groups:
(a) Graduation in an architectural course from
a college of recognized standing and four
years
of
architectural drafting.
(b) Two years
of technical school training and six
years of architectural drafting.
(c) Seven
years
of architectural drafting.
Grade 4, $6.24 to $8 per diem—-
Applicants must have the education, training, and
experience as specified in one of the following
groups:
(a) Graduation in an architectural course from a
college of recognized standing and six years of ar-
chitectural drafting and designing.
(b) Three years of technical school training and
eight years of architectural drafting and designing.
(c) Twelve years of architectural experience, of
which not less than three shall have been in design.
Applicants will be admitted to this examination
regardless of their residence and domicile, but those
desiring appointment to the apportioned service in
Washington, D. C., must have been actually domi-
ciled in the State or Territory in which they reside
for at least one year previous to the date of making
oath to the application, and must have the county
officer’s certificate in the application form exe-
cuted.
This examination is open to all male citizens of
the United States who meet the requirements.
Applicants should at once apply for Form 1312,
statin" the title of the examination desired, to the
Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C.; the
37
SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
