AMERICAN sculpture with the figure of Rodin
hovering over it, an evil genius, is as though
it had been dipped in an acid that only age
could
rub off. There have been so many monumental fig-
ures in
art, but no single, contemporary figure of
any period so enormous as that of the great French-
man. He is, as I have said elsewhere, a god or a
monster. The great mass of sculptors either profit
from the radiation of his light or are lost in the
darkness of his shadow, writes Guy Pene du Bois in
The Architectural Record.
Rodin with the wrld, I am inclined to believe,
is a realist. That may be because the present day
interest in dollars is greater than the present day
interest in art. Indeed it is the art market, the
glamour of the fabulous sums spent in it, rather
than the art product, that creates talk, excitement,
admiration, envy among the people.
Now unless art takes the reins and tugs on them
one way or another we are going to be realists—
that is, we are going to take life as it comes and
comment upon it with all the literal truth of which
we are capable. Not because the world is without
natural idealists and symbolists, men with intuitive
The Whrk of Henry Hering
prejudices who would follow a path blindfolded
despite temptations placed in a million by-ways,
but because the vaster world with
eyes glued on
gold follows the practical man who may lure it with
enough of the stuff that glitters. The practical col-
lector of gold is a realist.
Place ideals instead of dollars, which for the
simplification of the argument is not an ideal, on
the pedestal, and immediately the heads of artists,
who are individuals, will bob up definitely above
the vortex; idealism becomes a buffer to realism;
symbolism steals a little of the fire of literalism.
It is true that nothing lives that is not truthful,
and likewise true that the range
of truth is so vast
that one end of it must seem very great truth and
the other end very great falsehood. Now the mod
ern realist who sees in truth an obvious theme are
likely to call the idealist a liar, forgetting that truth,
which is sincerity, lives in
every
man’s individual
vision.
Henry Hering, the sculptor, whom this article
concerns, is not a realist, not a follower of Rodin,
strange for the day, and one of the most sincere of
the men here who feel that they have something
within themselves worth giving out to the world.
He was born in New York City in 1874. He be-
gan his studies at Cooper Union, worked for eight
years
with Martini and for eight years with Augus-
tus Saint Gaudens. The latter connection was broken
only with the sculptor’s death.
It would be futile and rather foolish to
say that
he had retained nothing of*the teaching of these
men,
that he had discarded, with a shake of the
shoulders, the veil thrown over every
sincere stu-
dent and stood forth an individual linked to no other
individual by any trend of thought or any method
of expression. He is Saint Gaudens over again, the
workman and, in many
little delicacies of concep-
tion, the artist. Here the influence may
be said to
rest and through it and above it stands Hering the
individual, with his own grip on thought. A very
distinct point should be made of this because it
would be a very easy and a very natural thing to
place him as a pupil of Saint Gaudens, in accordance
with the tradition of the pupil and the master, and
to let it
go at that, and because I fear that it would
be as great a mistake as to say all Republicans and
all Democrats and all Socialists were sheep or that
every
soldier in a company was like his
captain.
Tiering works quite alone and rarely exhibits.
In this he resembles the older sculptors whose work
became familiar to the public only after it was
placed in a public building or square or park a fin-
ished commission. He lias made an ideal of dignity
“Diana”—A Bronze Profile—By Henry Hering, Sculptor.
