SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
32
Kenyon Cox that follows closely an academic formu-
la, and therefore must be valueless as a document,
and one by Ellen Emmet, in which the literal facts
concerning form, features, construction are made
to
seem, perhaps, over important as though the detail
of a mole on a man’s face was to be turned into a
conclusive
argument in the judgment of his charac-
ter.
Hering points to the puny
in minor details with
big comprehensive truths. One finds them in his
portrait of Bishop Talbot, of Southern Pennsylvania,
and in his portrait of Roger Platt, the son of Charles
Platt, the architect. In this latter portrait one sees
not only the
boy Roger, but an epic to the spirit of
American youth. It is handled in much the same
way that Praxiteles handled that head of Hermes,
the smooth clearness of the face accentuated by the
tumbled roughness of the hair.
Indeed the spirit of the ancient Greeks is to be
found often as not in the works of Mr. Hering. It
is decidedly apparent, for example, in a little statu-
ette of Venus, hands uphold a drapery that hangs in
symmetrical folds, the proportions lending grace,
the attitude, dignity, the almost frenzied coldness of
the manipulation of flesh—the godlike purity of the
Greeks, clear as air on a fine winter day.
It is the bronze Diana that Mr. Ilering considers
his masterpiece and in which he has made of reserve
a fine art. That statuette shows a Diana new to
modernity, a Diana that is really a goddess, free
from earthly temptation, from material care, happy,
joyous, but refined and as divine as though she were
a goddess of Hering’s own religion. He shows her in
lines that are clear and continuous, sinuous and un-
hampered, devoid of prudery. Continuous line, but
not too continuous, too suave, which, like urbanity,
is vulgar.
Another picture of joy, less dignified, more youth-
fid than the joy of Diana, that is ageless, is his
figure, suggested by Milton’s “L’Allegro,” blow-
ing through pipes similar to those of Pan and danc-
ing, her face lighted, like her figure, by the joy of
rhythmic tune and motion.
A catalogue of Bering’s work would be entirely
inadequate if it did not include examples of his work
in bas-relief. Here one may
not forget that he was
a pupil of Saint Gaudens who knew how to lend
air and even color to a flat surface. His bas-reliefs
reach a little fulled into the province of the painted
picture. Their forms are a little fuller, a little more
robust than those of Saint Gaudens. I am thinking
of tlie bas-relief of Everts Tracy, the architect; of
Charles Albert Coffin, the president of the General
Electric, and of the
group portrait of Alice Olin Dows
and of Stephen Olin Dows. The last is captivatingly
decorative. This mav be said too of his medal for
the Scarsdale Golf and Country Club, an arrange-
ment of Scotch thistle, which it is possible he may
win himself, as much of his
spare
time is devoted to
golf.
Elsewhere in that catalogue designs for archi-
tectural motifs should be given a prominent place.
In this field of his work the most apt examples are
to be found in a lioness wearing the Egyptian head-
dress, seated, the lines of her figure rigid, her gaze
impenetrable—a spinx truly; in the terminals of the
seasons now at the Harkness house of which Gam-
ble Rogers was the architect; in the fountain of the
boy and the dolphin in the Mather house, Cleveland,
which Charles Platt designed, and in a beautifully ar-
ranged figure of Pan, the immortal, for the foun-
tain of the Dows house at Rhinebeck, designed by
Albro and Lindeberg—here is a strong feeling by the
sculptor that his art is indeed allied to architecture.
Builders of Raleigh Organized.
The Raleigh Building Trades Association is a new
venture launched at Raleigh, N. C., and one in which
is represented over three hundred men in the build-
ing industry of Raleigh and vicinity. The following
officers were elected: John Thiem, president; J. C.
Murphy, vice president; W. T. Barrow, business
agent.
The purpose of this organization is as in all trades
organizations, for the benefit of the men engaged in
the building trade. According to reports, there is a
bright outlook for the new organization.
Foreign Trade Opportunities.
Where addresses are omitted they may
be ob-
tained from the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic
Commerce, Washington, D. C., and at the branch
offices of the Bureau, 315 Custom House, New York.
N. Y.; 629 Federal Building, Chicago. 111., and Asso-
ciation of Commerce Building, New Orleans, La., and
310 Custom House, San Francisco, Cal. For con-
venience in filing, please use separate letter sheet
for each trade opportunity request.
24059.—A man in
Spain desires to secure an
agency
for the sale of structural materials and ma-
chinery of all kinds.
Correspondence may be in Eng-
lish. References.
24115.—A firm in Switzerland desires to pur-
chase steel sheet metal suitable for making metal roll
shutters. The metal should be 0.0156 of an inch
thick, 31.2 inches wide, and from 35.1 to 117 inches
long. From 10 to 30 tons are desired for immediate
shipment. A sample of the steel may be examined at
the Bureau or its District Offices. (Refer to file No.
85299.) Correspondence should be in German. Ref-
erence.
