commission, known as the “Public Buildings’ Com-
mission. ’
’
His high position with the American Institute
of Architects has carried him to all principal Ameri-
can cities, where he has studied their problems.
Greensboro Builders Get Together.
Builders of Greensboro, N. C., including contract-
ors for general construction work, architects and the
specialists in various departments of building, had a
meeting in late February. It was stated that the ac-
tivity beginning or in
prospect for the year
in Greens-
boro and vicinity actuated the leaders who called the
meeting to pursue the course.
Many well known firms have headquarters in
Greensboro, and they have done large contracts in
various parts of the country, and now expect to make
every
effort to get the lion’s share of the construc-
tion work in the booming home town. It is antici-
pated that several million dollars will be turned
loose in the next two years for huge improvements
here, and the builders are seeking to put themselves
in position to give the utmost service.
New Things in Houses.
When distinctive qualities embody character and
promote comfort, an unusual residence fosters in-
terest. That is the way
with a small brick bungalow
at Evanston, 111., a house of swinging walls and dis-
appearing rooms, that has amazed all who have ex-
amined it. It is a tiny, sun-flooded “doll’s house’’
with light walls, white woodwork, and attractive,
simple hangings.
Its outside dimensions, not including the protu-
berances, are about 27
by 25 feet. Yet it is a five-
room house with living room, approximately 13 by
25 feet in size; two bedchambers, about lOV2 by
14y2
feet and 10 by 14y
2 feet, respectively; a dining
room, 10 by 14y2 feet, and a kitchen, 7U> by 10 feet,
as well as a toilet room, small hall, one very roomy
closet, and a kitchen entryway which accommodates
a refrigerator.
Swinging walls are the secret of all this. The
little house is really divided into a living room and
kitchen. But only a trifle more time and energy
are required in unfolding a fully furnished bedcham-
ber, or a dining room, than attends the opening or
closing of a door. The north walls of the living
room —which are separated by a doorway opening
into a small reception hall were hung on hinges and
supported by heavy ball-bearing rollers. Firmly
attached to the wall in the west half of the room,
its
legs reaching to within a half-inch of the floor, is a
library table. On the other partition is a writing
desk. Concealed behind the former wall are a dress-
er, chiffonier, and sewing machine. When this wall
is swung back to form a bedroom, it fits the beamed
opening extending from the hall doorway to the
fireplace, and decreases the length of the living room
to about 14 feet. A bed, to the foot of which a bench
is attached, is then drawn out from the opposite wall.
A doorway in one corner gives access to and from
the other rooms.
The other—the east—end of the living room is
converted into a dining room by a similar operation.
When the wall in that half of the room is
opened
back and fastened in place beneath another beam,
extending parallel with the first mentioned one, an
attractive built-in china closet is disclosed, and a real
dining room provided. Obviously, at such times the
west end of the main room becomes the living room.
Radiator on New Lines.
A French concern has recently placed on the mar-
ket a new type of radiator especially adapted to hot-
water heating systems, which is much smaller than
ordinary radiators and, in proportion to its size, gives-
off more heat. It is made of several coils, or sections,
in the usual way. They are, however, wider from
front to back than common coils, and so shaped that
the sides of the radiator as a whole are marked by
deep horizontal
depressions. Extending diagonally
from front to back are a series of partitions between
the coils which serve to throw the warmed air out in-
to the room instead of allowing it to rise straight up.
The result of this arrangement is that the upper por-
tion of the radiator is surrounded by air that is no
warmer than that around the lower portion, and so
its entire surface is put to use to heat the maximum
amount of cool air. This form of construction, it is-.
claimed, makes possible a saving of fuel.
House Built on Steep Slope.
A dwelling, which almost seems to hang on the
side of a steep cliff, is an unusual architectural fea-
ture found not far from San Francisco. The w
T
est
front of this peculiar house faces a street which is
nearly 100 feet higher than the street on which the
east front faces. For a dwelling of the ordinary type
this almost perpendicular lot would be practically
valueless, but in this case the architect has skillfully
adapted the now popular Pueblo Indian style of ar-
chitecture to the precipitous cliff and has
produced
a pleasing effect. The materials used are stucco and
concrete. From the upper windows a magnificent
panoramic view is obtained of the greater part of
San Francisco, the bay, the cities across the bay,
and the mountain range beyond. On the lower side
retaining walls and shrubbery have been employed
to good advantage to break the abrupt aspect of the
slope. Steps mount to the entrance on this side, by
easy
inclines.
44 SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
