SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
16
a:
Pullmanize Your Windows
\ Olf |7O pi A M of an arrangement we have evolved for
O IV. r K. I L dormer windows, triple windows and bay
windows which has met with wide approval among architects. It effects a consider-
able saving in construction, cuts down mullions to the minimum and in every
way has given unqualified satisfaction.
Pullman £i\ Unit Sash Balances
used in this connection are fast supplanting cords and weights. They require only a small mortise, and as they
have a uniform size face plate the mortise can be cut at the mill when the frames are made. All parts are m the
casing—nothing can rub or interfere with the spring action. There is nothing to squeak, rattle, bang or stick.
Once installed and it will never require contractors’, builders’ or architects’ attention. There is in every Pull-
man Sash Balance satisfaction for owner and builder alike. Guaranteed for 10 years.
Over five million in use.
’Way back in June, 1890, over twenty-five years ago, the General Hospital (Surgical Building), Rochester, N. Y.,
installed Pullman Unit Sash Balances. They report that these Balances are in fine working order today. Their
noiseless operation appealed to them.
In the Wilsonia a fine modern apartment in Rochester, Pullman Unit Sash Balances are used for all the win-
dows The windows are large and the service severe. The owner says: “They move as noiselessly and easily
as though supported by an air cushion.” He also reports a saving of about $l.OO per window through their use.
Approved by Board of Fire Underwriters for Fire Proof Buildings.
Send TOD A Y for our Complete Catalog
Pullman Mfg. Company, Street Rochester, N.Y.
-X
Hot Water Heating From the Fireplace
Everyone enjoys the cheerful open grate fire with
its healthful ventilation; but owing to the great loss
of heat up the flue in the old style fire-place, few can
afford to operate them with the constant advance in
the price of fuel.
We are pleased to make announcement to the Home-
builder, Architect and Contractor of a Fire-place Heater
constructed with a Water-coil made of 30 lineal feet 1
charcoal iron pipe (not
steel) being very dur-
able. The coil is con-
nected by pipes to
ordinary Hot Water
Radiators placed in
any distant rooms; in
this way the various
rooms are heated with
heat lost up the flue in
the old style fireplace.
This Hot Water Fire-
place Heater costs lit-
tle more than an or-
dinary grate outside
of the cost of the radi-
ators, piping, etc., nec-
essary, but this can almost be saved in fuel in one
winter.
It will heat a medium size residence in a moderate
climate.
As an auxiliary to a cellar hot water boiler it is in-
valuable in any climate.
For descriptive circular and price, write the
Heitland Grate & Mantel Co.
Ho. 133 H. Fifth St., Quincy, 111., Sole Mfgrs. & Patentees
miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiM^
[Cotton Mill Builders!
We manufacture large timbers in both long
and short leaf for cotton mill buildings.
We Make a Specialty of =
CEILING, FLOORING, SIDING, KILN DRIED 1
BOARDS, LATHS |
Also =
MAPLE, BEECH AND OAK FLOORING AND E
RED CEDAR SHINGLES =
! A Collins Lumber Co., |
: Manufacturers and Wholesale Dealers E
| Suite 409-410 Realty Bldg., CHARLOTTE, N. C. |
1lllllMMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIilll!:illllllllllllMIIIMIIMIMIMMIMIIItT
