be given for graduation from a four years’ high
school course or for four full years
of study in a
school offering a course equivalent to that of a high
school.
Until further notice, owing to the lack of eligibles,
the number of appointments to be made, and the
urgent needs of the service, applications will be re-
ceived at any time, and the papers will be rated im-
mediately upon their receipt in order that appoint-
ments may
be made with the least possible delay.
Applicants must have reached their twenty-sec-
ond birthday on the date of filing application.
This examination is
open
to all male citizens of the
United States who meet the requirements.
Applicants should at once apply for Form 1312.
stating the title of the examination desired, to the
Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C.; the
secretary of the United States Civil Service Board,
post office, Boston, Mass., Philadelphia, Pa., Atlanta.
Ga., Cincinnati, Ohio, Chicago, 111., St. Paul. Minn.,
Seattle, Wash., San Francisco, Cal.; customhouse,
New York, N. Y., New Orleans, La., Honolulu, Ha-
waii ;
old customhouse, St. Louis, Mo.; Administra-
tion Building. Balboa Heights, Canal Zone; or to
the chairman of the Porto Rican Civil Service Com-
mission, San Juan, P. R. Applications should be
properly executed, excluding the medical and coun-
ty officer’s certificates, and filed with the Commission
at
Washington without delay. The exact title of
the examination as given at the head of this an-
nouncement should be stated in the application form.
Want Subinspector of Construction.
The United States Civil Service Commission an-
nounces an open competitive examination for subin-
spector of construction for men only. A considerable
number of vacancies at various navy yards and other
naval establishments of the United States, at entrance
salaries ranging from $3.28 to $5.52 per diem, will be
filled from this examination.
In filling vacancies certification will be made of
the highest eligibles residing in the vicinity of the
place at which the appointee is to be employed, ex-
cept that
upon
the
request of the Navy Department
certification will be made of the highest eligibles on
the register for the entire country who have express-
ed willingness to accept appointment where the va-
cancy
exists.
Competitors will not be required to report for ex-
amination at any place, but will be rated on the fol-
lowing subjects, which will have the relative weights
indicated, on a scale of 100: (1) Education, 40; (2)
experience, 60.
Competitors who fail to attain a rating of at least
70 per cent under the subject of experience will not
be considered for appointment.
In rating the subject of experience the degree of
difficulty and importance of the work performed,
the length of experience, and the rating which an ap-
plicant has had as an inspector or workman will be
considered.
Statements as to education, training, and experi-
ence are accepted subject to verification.
Applicants must have reached their twentieth
birthday on the date of filing application.
Until further notice, owing to the lack of eligibles,
the number of appointments to be made, and the ur-
gent needs of the service, applications will be re-
ceived at any time, and the
papers
will be rated im-
mediately upon their receipt in order that appoint-
ments
may be made with the least possible delay.
Class No. 1, $3.28 to $4.24 per
Diem—
Applicants must have had the education, training,
and experience specified in one of the following
groups:
(a) Graduate of a high school or preparatory
school and two years’ actual experience in
building
inspection or construction.
(b) Two years in a technical school and three
years’ experience in building inspection or construc-
tion
; or three years in a technical and two years of
such experience.
(c) Four years' actual experience in building in-
spection or construction.
Class No. 2, $4.48 to $5.52 per
Diem—
Applicants must have had the education, training,
and experience specified in one of the following
groups:
(a) Graduate of a college of recognized standing
and two years’ actual experience in building inspec-
tion or construction.
(b) Graduate of a high school or preparatory
school, two years
in a technical school, and four years’
experience in building inspection or construction.
(c) Six
years’ actual experience in building in-
spection or construction.
Applicants should be men of good practical expe-
rience in one of the
building trades. They should
have a fair common school education, and be capable
of reading drawings, making measurements of work,
and calculating quantities of materials in
place.
This examination is open to all male citizens of
the United States who meet the requirements.
Applicants should at once apply for Form 1312,
stating the title of the examination desired, to the
Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C.: the
secretary of the United States Civil Service Board,
post office, Boston, Mass., Philadelphia, Pa., Atlanta.
Ga., Cincinnati, Ohio, Chicago, 111., St. Paul, Minn.,
Seattle, Wash., San
Francisco, Cal.; customhouse,
New York, N. Y., New Orleans, La., Honolulu, Ha-
waii ;
old
customhouse, St. Louis, Mo.; Administra-
tion Building, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone; or to the
chairman of the Porto Rican Civil Service Commis-
36 SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
