Southern Architect and Building News
VOL. XXXIX. DALTON and ATLANTA, GA., MAY, 1917. No. 1
To Encourage More Home Building
THE
nation-wide
‘
‘Buy a Home
’’
campaign that is
being agitated by the executive committee of
the National Asociation of Real Estate Boards prom-
ises to create additional outlets of lumber
tion that should draw the keenest interest of lumber-'
men. While the real estate men are no doubt actu-
ated by their common desire to emphasize in the most
impressive manner possible the growing values of
realty, no development of land values can be acceler-
ated without the improvements that are conferred
through building activities.
The preparations made by the national associa-
tion embrace direct home booming practically in
every community in the
country, and the individual
members of the committee are located at the most
desirable and convenient points. For the informa-
tion of the lumbermen who will desire to identify
themselves with this movement the names of the mem-
bers of the executive committee ar given here :
Hill Ferguson, of Birmingham, Ala., chairman; J.
E. Morris, of Indianapolis, Ind.; Paul C. Murphy, of
Portland, Ore.; L. F. Eppich, of Denver, Colo., and
John S. Leslie, of Sharon, Pa. In drawing attention
to the fact that the locations of the members are in
the most promising parts of the
country for the move-
ment that is being advocated, the information is
added that the territory which will no doubt be cov-
ered thoroughly by each member of the executive
committee—with the assistance of the local realty
boards—is particularly apt to respond quickly to the
general publicity that will be used.
Before this contrywide campaign for the individ-
ual ownership of homes was started, similar move-
ments were successfully carried out in large cities
such as Birmingham, Ala.; Indianapolis, Ind.; Den-
ver, Colo., etc., and proved to be remarkably effective
in stimulating real estate purchases. To a great
extent, lumber retailers in the cities here named also
profited because there was a good sized increase in
the demand for buildings, especially of wooden con-
struction. The details of the “Buy a Home” cam-
paign are as follows:
1. Let the local Board endorse the movement
and fix the dates, and appoint a committee of five to
carry out the campaign. Get good, live committee-
men who have enterprising and original ideas. The
Board should determine the amount it wants to spend
on this, eauipaign.* A
very
creditable one can be put
on for $10(1.00.. Jf there is no real estate board in
your city, call an informal ■meeting of the real estate
mc.n-'anu get them'orgq>ilr&ad at least long enough to
•put -on this
campaign.
2. Invite the local ad club, or if they are not or-
ganized, invite the ad men individually, to attend a
joint meeting with the real estate men—or arrange
for a joint luncheon to talk matters over. Explain
to the ad men that there is no real prosperity in this
country unless real estate is active, and that the
architects, contractors, material men and furniture,
wall
paper, paint, plumbing and other such dealers
are just as much interested in “Buy a Home” as are
the real estate men. The ad men will help you won-
derfully in this campaign.
3. Have the whole committee, or a good sub-
committee, go before the local Boards of Education,
for the city and county, or the City or County
Superintendents of Education, and urge them to
have all the children in the public schools engage in
some sort of contest in composition writing during
or just before the “Buy a Home” campaign in May-
such compositions to emphasize the desirability of
home ownership. Of course the object of this is to
educate the child along proper lines, and also to start
the folks at home to thinking about Buying a Home.
4. Have a local print shop get out several hun-
dred yellow cards 14 inches wide and 22 inches tall
with the phrase “Buy a Home” printed in red at
the top of the card—“Buy” on the first line and
“A Home” on the second line. These letters should
be about 3 inches tall, and the two lines should take
up the upper 9 inches of the card, leaving the low-
er 13 inches blank. Arrange with a local sign paint-
er to visit the various merchants and print on the
bottom of the card in black
ink, some phrase applic-
able to the merchant’s own business —for instance:
“Buy a Home and We’ll Stock the Pantry”—“and
start a garden in the back yard”—“and we’ll give
it that cozy look”—“and let us paper the walls”—
“and we'll supply the baby carriage”—“if you have
the money; if not, get ready to buy a home by start-
ing a savings account” —“and put your savings in a
diamond”—“with the
money you save trading at
Woodworth's”. You will find that the merchants
show great ingenuity in getting up phrases to fit their
