tracts on a cost-plus-percentage basis. In so doing
they select a contractor who has the ability, the mon-
ey and the organization to perform the desired work
in the specified time and the way it is desired to be
done. The causes for low-priced contracts are not
alone due to the contractors, but the blame is shared
equally by the builders who have been poor buyers
of contracts. In buying shoes, the ordinary person
takes quality into consideration. He buys from a
firm whom he knows to be reliable and from
whom he knows the article he purchases will
be exactly as represented. The same man, in
buying a suit of clothes, selects the store where he
knows he will be accorded fair treatment and will
not be given a cheap article when he has paid for a
good one. The same cornmonsense methods should
be applied to letting contracts; and if they were in
more general use, there would be less failure on the
part of contractors, less unsatisfactory concrete
work, and contractors would be regarded in a more
professional light than at present.
The condition is deplorable, but will only be cor-
rected by the contractors themselves refusing to take
contracts at less than the legitimate profit due them
for their knowledge and their more or less hazardous
investment.
The Duty of the Hour.
The President speaks the will of the nation. He
does it temperately, dispassionately, but with a con-
vincing finality that leaves nothing to be desired.
* * *
American citizens of other nativities should
do their utmost to respect the feelings of the German-
born, and to help them in standing fast by their
American faith. It is their hour of trial. They will
come through it triumphantly, but they should have
the sympathy and help of their fellow-citizens. * * *
We are one people in the presence
of this great mo-
ment in history, says the Minneapolis Journal.
Estimating the Loss.
They are beginning to arrive at figures which
show the loss of wooden buildings in the European
war. It is the merest beginning as yet, but the light
it throws on the situation is unmistakable, and it af-
fords a sort of basis for estimating how much lumber
will be needed to restore what has been destroyed.
That phase of the case is of interest to lumbermen
in America who are looking for export business af-
ter the close of the war.
The French Minister of the Interior has com-
pleted a tally of the buildings destroyed by the Ger-
mans in that part of France which
they occupied
during their dash for Paris, but from which they re-
tired after a few days or a few weeks. That district
is now in French possession and-the count of the loss
of wooden buildings has been finished. The destruc-
tion amounted to 345,840,000 feet, about one-third
of it being fine joinery work and interior finish. The
invading army occupied that district a short time
only. The wave of invasion rolled in and receded,
but within that brief period the destruction of wood-
en buildings reached the enormous total given above.
The Germans still occupy a region of France near-
ly four times as large as that from which they have
withdrawn, and the destruction there has been, from
all accounts, more complete than that in the districts
where their stay was short. Based on that estimate,
considerably more than a billion feet of wood has
been destroyed, counting buildings alone.
But France is only one corner of the devastated
areas. As much or more has been destroyed in Bel-
gium, a greater amount in Poland, while in East
Prussia, Austria, and the Balkans the totals are enor-
mous. It is doubtful if the whole exports of lumber
from the United States to Europe in many years
would suffice to restore what the war has destroyed
in buildings alone, comments Hardware Record.
Thomas Jefferson, Architect.
It was all right for Thomas Jefferson to write the
Declaration of Independence, to revolutionize the
laws of Virginia as to primogeniture, and establish
religious freedom and create a feeling of tolerance
among
the
people, but
they were not
proud that he
was also a great architect.
On this
point the Christian Science Monitor says r
“The truth is, neither in his time, nor for years
afterward, were Jefferson’s fellow-countrymen will-
ing to dissociate him from his public achievements
for any reason whatsoever. For his part in the
framing of the Declaration of Independence, for his
part in the making of the Constitution, and for his
part in directing the government in its tender years,
they were willing to grant him all praise, to do him
all honor, but they could not become enthusiastic
when told that he was an expert draftsman and had
designed some very fine buildings. They even thought
that it was beneath the dignity of so great a man to
putter around with a trestle board, compasses, rules,
crayons, and the like. Their idea of him was that
he should devote his whole time to composing decla-
rations, framing Constitutions or dictating essays on
the fundamentals of democracy.”
But Jefferson’s architectural work was as un-
hampered by established limitations as was his politi-
cal vision. He designed the Virginia Capitol at Rich-
mond, the graceful University of Virginia group and
the mansion at Monticello, and these achievements
have been admired for generations.
18 SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
