Curing Auditorium of Echoes.
The auditorium of the University of Illinois was
a veritable sounding board before its acoustic
faults were remedied. Echoes and reverberations
were so
pronounced as to distress an audience. Va-
rious methods of cure were considered—-the effect
of padding and paneling the walls, the possible ad-
vantages of installing wires and sounding boards,
and finally, the action of the ventilating system.
These were all discarded in favor of padding the
walls with sound-absorbing hairfelt.
Before the effective cure was found several meth-
ods of tracing sound were tried. One test was made
by talking.through a megaphone toward different
walls. The sound was generated inside a small house
and its direction controlled by two
megaphones, one
being pointed toward a listener and the other to-
ward a wall which gave echoes. No distinct echo
could be obtained by speaking simultaneously into
the two megaphones. The ticks of a metronome (a
clock-moved pendulum for marking exact time in
music) produced very little additional effect, but
when a sharp intense metallic sound was tried, echoes
were obtained from unpadded walls but only faint
response from padded walls. The intense hissing
sound of an arc light backed by a reflector gave
more pronounced results. It showed that the pad-
ded walls produced a marked effect in reducing
the intensity of the sound.
Before it was decided to use hairfelt as an ab-
sorbing material, curtains and draperies were hung
at critical
points suggested by the reverberating
sounds. Four large pieces of canvas were suspend-
ed in the dome. From an acoustic standpoint the
auditorium was in a much improved condition as
soon as the curtains and draperies were suspended.
Of course the architectural features of the auditori-
um forbade the continued use of curtains. Hair-
felt was finally adopted.
Accordingly, one large curved wall was covered
with strips of one-inch hairfelt
thirty inches wide,
placed vertically and thirty inches apart so as to
leave bare spaces between them. Following this the
dome above the arches and the double curved side
walls and single curved rear wall above the balcony
were padded. The felt was mounted on thin furring
strips which were bent to fit the curvature of the
surfaces.
Says Atlanta Needs City Planning Board.
“
Atlanta needs a city planning commission to
handle its development problems, traffic problems
and plaza scheme,” was the remedy suggested by
Architect John Lawrence Mauran, of St. Louis, Mo.,
in Atlanta in February to attend the Building Ex-
change convention.
His subject before the convention was “Co-opera-
tion Between Contractor, Architect and Owner.”
“What do you think of Atlanta’s problems?”
was asked Mr. Mauran.
“There is no such thing as ‘Atlanta’s problems.'
What is one city’s problems is every city’s prob-
lems. The
problems of Atlanta are likewise the
problems of Seattle, Wash., and Portland, Maine.
On the other hand, what is good for one city is good
for another.
“Atlanta can handle its problems and provide for
its future growth, 50 years hence, by having a city
planning commission. In a few weeks lam to take
before the United States congress a bill to make it
compulsory upon every American city to have a city
planning commission.
“It is the only sane, commercially economic and
scientific way in which to handle a city’s growth and
problems. Marseilles, France, has just recently, de-
spite the war,
torn down six blocks in order to put
up more modern and handsome buildings in order
that her city may
be attractive enough to compete
with other European cities after the war terminates.
It is a commercial and economic consideration with
the city planning commission.
“England has just passed a law making it obli-
gatory that every English city and town have a town
planning commission.
“Always, locally the idea of a city planning com-
mission is unpopular with the city politicians. They
point with scorn to it as a ‘city beautiful’ dream of
architects.
“And so it is a dream! But what city can de-
velop that does not dream? Every new idea has re-
sulted from a dream. An ordinary citizen might
walk across your
Whitehall viaduct, every day in
the year and see nothing but a. horrible looking spot
and plenty of smoke in the center of your city. But
it took a dream like that of your local architect
(Haralson Bleckley), to bring to the surface a
scheme, now shown to be practical, whereby Atlanta
may rid herself of this terrible
eyesore disgrace in
the center of your prosperous city.
“The city planning commission idea has long ago
demonstrated its practical value to cities. Harris-
burg, Pa., has secured wonderful results from it, as
well as other American cities. It can no longer be
called an idle dream of the ‘city beautiful.’ It is
only beautiful in that it makes a city practical and
more attractive to live in. And this is the great
problem for all cities to study—that of making their
cities more attractive for the people who live
therein.
“By all means, tell your Atlanta people for me
that they will profit multifold by having a city plan-
ning commission, and by building that plaza.”
Mr. Mauran has had much experience in city
planning. He was on St. Louis’ first city planning
43
SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
