Southern Architect and Building News
VOL. XXXIX.
The Southern Architect
And Building News
WITH WHICH IS CONSOLIDATED “SOUTHERN BUILDING RECORD”
DALTON and ATLANTA, GA., MAY, 1917. No. 1
Southern Architect and Contractor, Atlanta, Ga., and Southern
Building News, Memphis, Tenn., and Southern Building
Record, Naghyille, Tenn., Consolidated.
Entered as second-class matter May 27th, 1911, at the Post
Office at Dalton, Ga., under the act of March 3d, 1879.
This paper is issued and mailed from our printing house
at Dalton, Ga. Business office, Atlanta, Ga. All letters
should be addressed to the Atlanta office.
Price $2.00 Per Year.
TO OUR ADVERTISERS
Our advertisers are requested to have copy and
cuts for changes for advertisements in this office not
later than the sth, preceding the month of Publi-
cation.
We cannot be responsible for changes not
made, when copy and cuts are received later, or sub-
mit proof.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Editorial .11-12 and 17-18
Encouraging Home Building 27-28
Work of Henry Hering 29-32
Foreign Trade Opportunities 32 32
Richard Englemann, Sculptor 33-35
Plans Metal Lath Association 38
The Architect and the Community 39
Atlanta Needs Planning Board 43
Personal Mention 45
Trade News Notes 62-63
Building News Items 64-68
“Buy a Home’’ Propaganda.
The National
“Buy a Home’’ campaign which has
in recent months gained country-wide momentum,
endorsed and recommended by the executive com-
mittee of the National Association of Real Estate
Boards, seems to us to be launched
along the right
lines, because it appeals to the policy of home own-
ership which since the world began has been the
dream of every man.
&
We are giving in this issue something of what
tliis campaign is and how it is conducted, believing
it will aid in the construction of better and more
substantial homes and not the kind built merely for
a quick, cheap sale as has unfortunately been the
custom with some operators in the
past.
Attend the Conventions.
Now
approaches the time of the year when vaca-
tions are in order and with that in view, conventions
of the builders, the architects and the allied inter-
ests are to be held at various points, for the most
part at the seaside resorts or on the mountainside
where members of the fraternity can mingle with
each other and have a little recreation which they
so much need. On account of international com-
plications just at this time it might be well for these
gatherings to assemble in the interior and turn the
seaside resorts over to the troops as training quar-
ters.
The Southern Architect and Building News
wishes it were possible that everyone of our readers
could arrange his business affairs so as to attend
these meetings, for besides
doing a duty in attend-
ing, the benefit to be gained from an interchange
of ideas with other minds would amply repay any-
one. By all means attend
your state conventions,
all of which have their educational features.
The War and Trade Paper Advertising.
In spite of war excitement this is the one time,
above all others, when the trade paper advertiser
should use more space.
It is a fact that Europe has about
stopped placing
munition contracts in this country.
Most of these contracts will be completed in a
few months. European factories seem to be able to
supply their home needs.
Our entry into the war, however, will give our
munition factories plenty of work, but prices will
not be like those exacted from the Allies. Uncle Sam
will fix his own prices and the gun factories will
op-
erate on small profits.
While all this is going on our
country is growing
fabulously rich, and the demand for all kinds of
building material, machinery and equipment in new
plants will be
greater than ever before.
He is the wise man who holds his factory to his
regular line and keeps his old customers, and while
the other fedow is making guns and shells and
neg-
lecting hk regular home trade, this wise manufactur-
er is growing stronger with his regular customers
and gaining new ones.
There was never such a chance to grow
and ex-
