SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS 63
ing this catalogue generally, as has been their for-
mer custom, but will gladly send it to any
interest-
ed party upon request. Those not having this cata-
logue are requested to write for it as all prices in
their former
catalogue are wrong.
Crumb’s New Cattle Stanchion.
Crumb’s Warriner Patent Chain Hanging Cattle
Stanchion, manufactured by Wallace B. Crumb, at
Forestville, Conn., are the best stanchions of this
type manufactured. It is fully covered by patents
in both United States and Canada.
They have recently improved the form of the bolt
used in fastening the frame together. In the sec-
tional drawing shown in their ad the bolts are contin-
uous, passing entirely through the frame and secured
on the outside by nuts which effectually prevent any
racking or twisting. This improvement renders
Crumb’s Stanchion an even more effective and dura-
ble device than heretofore, although it has always
possessed these qualities to an admirable
degree.
If you are contemplating the erection of new
barns or the refitting of your present stables, by all
means investigate this fastener before purchasing.
If you have been getting along with an incovenient
old style affair, it will be to your interest to use
Crumb’s Stanchion in the place of those you now
have. You will find it will greatly add to your own
convenience, be a considerable saving in time and
labor, and materially add to
your income by increas-
ing the comfort and cleanliness of your cattle, there-
by increasing the flow of milk.
Modern Water Closets.
The modern architect or builder knows that
through the selection of the materials for his con-
tract, that it is either helping to make or break his
reputation. Usually the low costing article receives
more attention and use than costlier merchandise.
An illustration of this point is in a comparison of
water closets against the higher priced marble sur
roundings.
Invariably the water closet will receive more use
than the marble, its function is to give service and
to afford better sanitary methods for the modern
construction.
The unsuccessful operation of the gravity flush-
ing closets, both from the standpoint of sanitary
conditions, due to insufficient water pressure for the
proper cleansing of the bowl, and the various meth-
ods of control resulting in a noisy, troublesome com-
bination prompted Mr. H. C. Bowlus, founder of the
Bowlus Mfg. Co., of Springfield, Ohio, to conceive
the Bowlus “Famous” and “Jewel” flush valves.
The “Famous” direct flush meter, is designed
primarily to render entire satisfaction and service.
It is so designed as to eliminate all noises, troubles
and other disadvantages.
The “Famous” has an adjustable end base that
can be guaged to throw any amount of water that is
desired to a flush, depending entirely upon the re-
quirements of the building owner. This valve has
been on the market for the past several years and is
now entering into what promises to be one of the
most successful years in its history. This valve is
also designed so as to fit
any
manufacture bowl. This
is for the purpose of replacements of the “Famous”
on remodeling contracts. As there are instances
where the old bowls can be fitted with this valve and
made to give many years more service. A one inch
water supply is all that is required for the “Famous”
and it roughs in at nine or more inches.
The Bowlus Company, also manufacture the
“
Jewel” compression tank water closets, which have
been extensively used in all parts of the world. This
combination has proven very popular as a school, fac-
tory or public service closet.
Both combinations are fully guaranteed for five
years.
Should
any
reader desire information they
may
obtain same by addressing the Bowlus Manu-
facturing Co., Springfield, Ohio, and giving credit
to this publication.
Among the water closet installations made in this
territory are the following: Greer, S. C., schools;
Great Falls, S. C., Republic Cotton Mills; Parkers-
burg, W. Va., Masonic Temple; Glenpool, Okla.,
schools; Boyles, Ala., High Schools; Birmingham,
Ala., Atlanta, Ga., schools; Lavonia, Ga., courthouse;
Winder, Ga., Jefferson, Ga., schools; Perry, Fla., St.
Augustine, Fla., Houston, Texas, Port
Arthur, Texas,
Arthur, Texas, schools, and many southern states.
