95
SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
One
Type of
Wall
Here is one
type of block
made in our molds and laid
in the wall. Our molds also
manufacture block for silos,
and the best silo you ever
saw.
Poured Blocks are Good Blocks
MacArthur Blocks
are poured blocks
Why shouldn’t the concrete in a building block be of just as high quality as the
concrete in a poured foundation for a building? Our system of manufacture is
founded on the theory that concrete for a building block should be of the highest
possible quality—that means that it should have sufficient moisture to make it “pour.”
MacArthur blocks are poured in low-cost metal molds. When they have hardened
sufficiently, they are released and stored for aging. When they have cured, they are
flint-hard and ring when struck with a hammer.
MacArthur metal molds for molding MacArthur blocks are easily
assembled and easily cleaned. You can start with a few molds and
add to your equipment as your business grows.
You will have no competition for your product. Architects
and Builders will specify your blocks immediately upon
seeing them.
We sell our equipment to only one plant in a
town. Write for our proposition before some
other concrete man starts manufacturing
MacArthur blocks.
MacArthur Cement
Products Co.
102 N. Main Street
Burlington, - - -
lowa
:
■
--
.
V,
%. s
.
2%
Mvs USE THIS COUPON
McFELL INDUSTRIAL FIRE ALARM SYSETMS
are noted for lowest maintenance and operation cost ever obtained.
McFell’s is a reliable fire alarm
system with the highest posible percentage in
N
operation efficiency.
The McFell
system provides a circuit which will continue operative, as under
normal conditions, while
subject to troubles which would suspend service on other
systems.
If a tree or a chimney fell upon the
wires of the old type system, breaking
them, or through some accident to a box
on the circuit, if the circuit was open
and the current ceased to flow, the pro-
tective feature would be entirely lost
and the district covered by the said cir-
cuit would be without fire protection
during such a period of time as the line
was undergoing repairs. If this acci-
dent were to befall the McFell System
no such condition would exist. Each
box on the circuit would continue to
turn in its
proper alarm, as before, with
the apparatus gongs and other equip-
ment functioning under normal conditions. It is at onceapparent, therfore, that no question or doubt can exist as
to the difference m efficiency between the old style loop circuit and the McFell metallic loop circuit, and while we
are in a position to furnish the
single loop circuit, to those who insist upon this character of apparatus we do not
recommend it, and we would advise strongly against its employment.
Estimates gladly furnished for hotel, factory, warehouse, store or residence systems.
Write for our booklet entitled “Fire Alarm Apparatus” It will tell
you more about
McFell Fire Alarm Systems. Our system operates with wires short grounded or
open
Designers, Engineers and Manufacturers of the McFell Fire and
Police-Alarm Telephone and Telegraph Systems
■
McFELL SIGNAL CO.,
2857 2859 SOUTH HALSTED STREET, CHICAGO, ILL.
