SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
94
One of the
Fifteen Varieties
We make various styles of
Duck Shades, both Roller
and Folding.
Oliver C. Steele Mfg. Ce.
Spiceland, Ind.
DRAUGHTSMEN’S BLOUSES
(FRENCH SMOCKS) 01 Cfl
Sent prepaid on receipt of
Q
I iuU
State Height and Weight
Falkenhainer, 25 W. 42d St., New York
$1.50
E.
INSURE
MM
Against burglars and breakage of glass by us-
ing our
WINDOW GUARDS
The cost is small. We also manufacture Office
Railing, Elevator Cars and enclosures and any-
thing made at wire and iron works
SOUTHERN WIRE & IRON WORKS
59 Martin St. Atlanta, Ga.
■^l
——
a
'
m
U. S. Pat. Jun© 28,
1910
Sid© View
Sid© of Cut
Front:
14 ins. wide
18 ins. high
Size of Body
of Heater:
12% ins. wide
16% ins. high
4% ins. deep.
For Natural and Artificial Gas
THE Superior bathroom heater differs material-
-1
ly from any other device for bathroom heat
ing. The front is of Colonial design, cast iroa
heavily plated, which is fitted with a door foi
convenience in lighting without danger of be
ing burned. It is constructed to be used
in the regular wood partition, tiled or
plas-
tered wall of the bathroom and has the
appear-
ance of a hot air register, set 14 or 18 inches
from the floor.
It is flueless and odorless, as the flames come
in contact with nothing but air, (thereby elim-
inating asbestos and other artificial substances
IM
' commonly used in all other types of heaters,
which become soiled and unsightly.) Its con-
Superior Bathroom Heater in Use with Tiled Bathroom. struction is such as to make it entirely free
from any danger whatsoever from fire, the body of the heater being lined both inside and outside with heavy asbestos, as well as having a
large circulating cold air space around the inner frame which contains the burner. The inner frame also is covered with heavy asbestos
The burner, which is made of Imported Lava Tips, is fitted with an adjustable check for regulating the combustion on the different
pressures of
gas. No air mixer is used, as the gas comes in contact with the air through very small lava tips; it mixes and purifies itself,
leaving no odor from the gas whatever. It is made so that the heat from the gas jet causes the air furnlaned to be drawn from the floor
through the fender and pass up over the flame, discharging itself back into the room, thus creating a continuous circulation of pure air
through the room at all times. ODORLESS AND FLUBLBSS
This heater is equipped with lower corrugated copper
reflectors and an
upper corrugated deflector, also, upper reflector and baffle
plate on the cast door for directing the products of combustion back to the point where it comes in direct contact with the air drawn
from the floor, which greatly purifies it. The deflector plate not only directs the heat, but hides the
gas jets and reflects the light
down upon the lower reflectors, giving a very luminous and pleasing effect. This method of heating a bathroom is not only con-
venient, but very economical and safe, doing away with the objectionable bathroom stove.
The Superior Bathroom Heater not only ornaments the bath-room handsomely but it quickly heats it to just the desired temperature at
the least expense. By its use it is possible to bathe and complete the toilet in perfect comfort without firing an
expensive furnace
which too frequently destroys the delightful coolness so much appreciated in all other parts of the house during warm weather. In
fact, it is a necessity in every up to-date modern home.
Leading architects and designers throughout the United States and foreign countries always specify “Superior” Bathroom Heaters
when the best is desired. The front is heavily plated and polished as handsomely as a watch case.
This heater is made for either outside or inside connection, and whenever neither kind is specified in the order, the kind for outsids
connection will invariably be sent, as that style is generally preferred when the gas line is not inside the wall. In plan for new house
the pipe should be about 5 inches to the left of center of opening and come up just as
high as the bottom of same, for convenience il
setting
FINISHES:—NICKEL, JAPANESE BRONZE, or BRIGHT BRASS.
Re careful to specify finish and to state whether outside or inside connection is wanted when ordering.
Complete with valve and adjustable check. Bright Brass, Nickel or Japanese Bronze Finish.
NO FLUES NO ODOR NO ASBESTOS NO LARGE GAS BILLS NO DANGER FROM FIRI
The Superior Manufacturing Company, N. S., Pittsburg, Pa.
General Offices and Factory: Corner Said and Magnolia Streets, North Side.
TO ARCHITECTS
Competition Designs and Perspectives in Water
Color, Sepia or Ink pencilled in and rendered high class
style. Rapid tentative colored sketch for approval,
on receipt of plans. Address JAMES ADAMS, Oak
Cottage, Arlington, N. J.
Cutler Mail Chutes
TATRWTEU
c
Tfie Cfieapesf ffVLocUrn Improvement
”
Cutler Mail Chute Co Rochester N Y
