Contractor Relieved From Loss.
An unusual
experience is given in a New England
paper, to the effect that a man who had made the
low bid for a heating and ventilating system for a
school building was released from his bond on the
announcement that he had discovered an error in his
figures which would lead to a loss. The matter was
brought to the attention of the school board, and to
the engineer in charge of the work, and after consid-
eration the bidder was relieved of responsibility, the
work being given to the next highest bidder, who was
willing to carry out the work at the figures he had
given.
If the school board had adhered to its rights, the
original bidder would have had either to withstand
a loss of over $l,OOO, or have given up
the certified
check for $4OO, which he had furnished as evidence
of his good faith for carrying out the contract. This
is far better disposition of the matter for all con-
cerned than a custom too frequently followed
by men
who discover they have made an error and then en-
deavor to carry through the work in a way that will
save them from loss, with the result that the finished
work is
by no means of the quality and character
that was expected. Here the school board saved
itself from the risk or possibility of having such an
equipment provided, says Building Age.
Scientific Measurement System More Widely
Favored.
One result of the European war has been to bring
to both England and the United States a large num-
ber of foreign orders in which the metric system of
weights and measures has been used. England has
also had its attention more specifically centered upon
the extension of its foreign markets for its own man-
ufactures, and a difficulty is imposed in this respect
because its measures of both physical things and cur-
rency are expressed at the present time in non-deci-
mal standards. There is a growing movement in
England to adopt the decimal system for both money
and measurement.
The United States has not been so seriously handi-
capped in this
respect, inasmuch as its money system
has always been on the decimal basis. It has for
many years had the opportunity to take a forward
step in the matter of weights and measures in ad-
vance of the “mother country,” from which our
Ask for a Square Deai.
Others Discuss Some Timely Topics
practices in that field have been derived. It would
appear now, however, as though we shall merely fol-
low England in that regard. There is, however, an
awakening interest in the subject in our own country.
The National Wholesale Grocers’ Association re-
cently adopted a resolution recommending that the
metric equivalents of weights be added in stating the
weights of all package goods, says
The American
Lumberman.
Cement Era thus editorially asks for a square
deal for the building profession generally: Archi-
tects and engineers are professional men—at any
rate, the good ones are. The architect is retained
and paid for his services on the basis of fees, the same
as collected by the doctor, the dentist, or the lawyer.
He is often called into competition, but to compete
with his ideas rather than with his prices on certain
work. Consulting engineers operate on a similar
basis. It is true that occasions have arisen wherein
architects and engineers have gone
into
petty com-
petitive building for small work, but fortunately
this condition is not general and it is looked upon
with disfavor by engineering societies and engineers
prominent in their professional affairs.
Contractors, in a sense, are as much or more pro-
fessional than engineers and architects. Architects
need originality of ideas and ability to develop them.
In most cases this is a result of special adaptability
or a product of hard work. Engineers are likewise.
Contractors are usually confronted with much more
serious and complicated problems. Theirs are real
problems of construction. It is for them to decide
upon methods, overcoming sometimes seemingly in-
surmountable obstacles and in a way that will permit
them to do their work at a profit.
Hundreds of contractors are doing work today
with little profit or with profit entirely incommensu-
rate with the amount of money invested and the
knowledge and originality required. Why are con-
tractors willing to cut prices just to get contracts?
What is there in the contracting business which
makes this necessary.
A new era is in store for contractors, if the
pres-
ent tendencies are carried out in the coming years.
Many railroads and power companies let their con-
17
SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
ELEVATORS MOFFATT MACHINERY IVJFG. QO.
HAND-BELT-ELECTRIC
AND HYDRAULIC
MACHINISTS AND FOUNDERS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
