12 SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
pand—never such a chance to keep old customers and
get new ones—never such a chance to advertise to
the best advantage as now.
The war will soon be over. It will soon spend it-
self. Then will naturally come the
great spurt of
prosperity which follows every war. The United
States will be rich and there will
open an era of
building activity never seen in the world. Vast for-
tunes will seek investment. The wise man who has
stuck to his safe line of manufacture will not only
have his old trade, but new trade as well. The day
of his good fortune will then dawn. He will reap the
reward of
patience and consistency.
The munition maker will have to readjust his
business. His new occupation will be
gone.
He will
have to go back to his old line of manufacture.
But here he will meet unexpected difficulties.
The trade which he abandoned three years ago
will
have been taken over by his competitors who did
not
go
into the war game. That competitor kept at
his old line, kept advertising to his
customers, and
when the gun maker comes back to hunt up his old
trade he will find it
gone
forever. The other man
has it and will keep it.
Therefore, there never was such an opportunity
to use the trade
paper
for exploiting one's products
as at present. While the other fellow is dallying
with the war game,
double
your trade paper space.
For the time being the other fellow is asleep and
now is
your
chance to capture his customers. When
once
you get them they will remain yours.
In a publishing experience of twenty-five years,
I have never known a time when trade
paper
adver-
tising was so important, so practical and so certain
of fixed results as the present. For when the war
ends the advertising done now will have a double
value, first in producing new customers while
your
competitor is “off duty,” and also in the increased
demand for your goods which is sure to follow the
declaration of peace.
Advertise now, as you never did before, and reap
results of an hundred fold. There can be no ques-
tion about this investment, for the returns are abso-
lutely certain.
Now for Thrift and Economy.
As this is being written in
early April it seems
almost certain that before these lines
get in cold
type
that there will have been declared by the Congress
of the United States that a state of war exists be-
tween this
country and the German nation which
calls for every industry in this land from now on
to pursue a policy of thrift and economy in the con-
duct of affairs, and we believe it to be the duty of
every
industrial magazine to call upon
its readers.
for a united stand upon these principles.
There never was a time in the history of this coun-
try when thrift was so much needed as now, as well
as economy. The poorer
classes of people are, in the
high cost of food products, paying more than their
share of the obligations imposed upon us by the war
abroad and thriftlessness at home. The pathetic as-
pect of the situation lies in the fact that those who
are least responsible suffer most. Today the admis-
sion is generally made that extravagant living is one
of the besetting sins of American life. The average
American home wastes excessively. Statisticians tell
us that we waste eight billion dollars yearly in this
country. Experts in such matters have figured out
that 10
per cent of our food stuffs is wasted by the
housekeepers in this country.
During this impending war with Germany, if war-
should
come, as President Wilson so admirably put
it in his wonderful message to Congress; “It will in-
volve the organization and mobilization of all the
material resources of the country to supply the mate-
rials of war and serve the incidental needs of the
nation in the most abundant and yet the most eco-
nomical and efficient way possible.” This means
the conservation of all our cotton products, of our
sources of structural materials of all sorts, of our
mining operations, and in fact no unnecessary
waste
whatever.
Thrift of time is just as essential as thrift in
money,
and saving the seconds is just as valuable as
saving pennies. It would be a good idea if people
everywhere would form the habit of keeping a strict
account of what they do every minute of every day.
They would soon be amazed at the amount of time
they waste. It would be a good idea, merely as an
enlightening experiment, if for no other reason,
if
everyone
of our readers would provide himself with
a time account book and keep a record of every min-
ute with the same accuracy that many persons keep a
record of each cent spent.
Even if by some now unforeseen miracle this
country should not enter war with the German autoc-
racy, not the German people, then this preachment
will not be amiss and the industries of the nation will
be all the better off to put it into practice year
in
and year out in time of peace as well as in time of
war, if it must come.
Engineers Offer for War,
The Florida Engineering Society, which lias a
membership of more than 150 engineers, wired Gov-
ernor Catts of Florida offering immediately through
him to the federal government the services of its
members should they be needed for war.
