A less impressionistic nature would have accepted
the petty jealousies which it created without being
disturbed, but Engelmann, in his impulsive excite-
ment, left the Academy, and went to Florence. Here
he worked with Hildebrandt until the latter left
Florence, but not before he had made lasting im-
pressions upon Engelmann.
Then the young sculptor met with Boecklein, a
mature artist of many years, who for a long time had
not used any model, carrying nature in his head and
hand; he explained his version of plastic art and
advised the young artist to
study the antique, and to
dispense with his model. Engelmann began this
style of work before he had made a sufficient study
of nature to be able to
proceed without a model, with
the result that his work was
rejected by the jury in
Munrich.
Just at this time, a German artist
traveling
through Florence, advised him to go to Paris, whith-
er he went in 1896. After a short time at the Julian
Academy he retired, depending upon
his own re-
sources to work out the way which no teacher could
enlighten for him.
Soon he succumbs to a new influence and Hilde-
brandt and Italy are entirely forgotten: in their
place come Rude and Carpeaux and the younger
artists, Dubois, Mercie and Damot. Paris enthuses
over these, and Engelmann finds in them many
things that appeal to him, such as realism in detail
of form and impression and many plastic singulari-
ties. Engelmann’s work during this period were
named “Drowned,” “A Condemned One,” etc., and
one finds them worthy of the exhibits at Champ de
Mars.
The artist, however, did not find for himself full
satisfaction at Paris and he began to think of Ber-
lin and the sculptor Begas.
In 1898 lie went to Berlin and still after the style
of his Paris work, completed “The Loving Couple,’
’
“The Rebel'’ and “Pelleas and Melisande.” Then
The Three Graces—Fountain Group in Marble.
Richard Engelmann, Sculptor.
The Mourning One.
Richard Engelmann, Sculptor.
The Sleeping One.
Richard
Engelmann, Sculptor.
34 SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
