Southern Architectural and Industrial
Arts Exposition
Announcement of Medals to be Awarded
ARCHITECTURE
is an assembly of all the
arts.
By a joint exhibit of drawings and pho-
tographs of buildings executed, also of the
products of the arts and crafts and building mate-
rials, all of which enter into the completed work, the
public will better visualize the successful consum-
mation of the architect’s conception. In this exhibit
the industrial arts in their various forms, decora-
tion, furniture, textiles, sculpture and paintings
should play an important part.
There is no more potent method of placing be-
fore the public the importance of the architect’s func-
tion, than by showing the extent of the field drawn
on by him to produce the building which we admire
in its completed state. Architecture is truly “the
mother of the arts” and this exposition will dem-
onstrate that truth.
The arrangement of the exhibit has, as its focal
point, the drawings and photographs of executed
work; and around this will he
grouped the exhibits
of the manufacturers whose products have made
our buildings successful. The Court of Honor forms
the crossing of the two avenues of architectural ex-
hibits. In this
space, open to the exhibits of archi-
tects only, it is hoped each member of the profes-
sion will he fully represented by reproductions of
his best work. Perspectives, models, studies of de-
tail either in the form of sketches or photographs,
in fact as varied a selection of documents as we can
collect should he assembled in this exhibit.
Enlarge-
ments of photographs are a splendid medium for
presentation. Details of the requirements for exhib-
its will be distributed later.
We are producing, in the South, some of the
most worthwhile architectural work of the
country,
and now is the time to let the public know it. There
is no more convincing method of showing this than
by placing reproductions of our work on view, and
we believe that this exposition is the ideal method
of proving what we know to be a fact. A
great many
of us have been so busy producing that we have
overlooked the duty that we owe to ourselves of
showing our work to the public in such a way
that
they will realize the authorship of the work.
Around the architectural exhibits will he grouped
the exhibits of industrial art, all exhibits arranged
in architectural setting. Surrounding these will be
the exhibits of building materials and mechanical
appliances used to make the buildings beautiful and
useful. The manufacturer of building products is
daily becoming more aware of the value of art. The
cry
of the degradation of art by the machine is be-
ing discounted more and more as beautiful product
follows beautiful product on the market. To the ar-
chitect this will be one of the most instructive and
enjoyable parts of the exhibit.
The whole scheme of arrangement of the exhibi-
tion is planned to stress the importance of architec-
ture and show to the public what effort the archi-
tect expends in behalf of his client.
As an evidence of the interest in this exposition
a number of medals have been offered. The method
of award and the juries who will make these awards
will he announced in circulars of information which
will be sent to all Southern Chapters of the Ameri-
can Institute of Architects and to all architects prac-
ticing in the South as far as it is possible to reach
them. The following medals have been announced to
date. Mr. Walk C.
Jones of Jones and Furbringer
of Memphis, offers a
gold medal for the best indi-
vidual exhibit. Mr. Tebbs of Tebbs & Knell of New
New York, offers a medal in memory of Mr. Neel
Reid of the former architectural firm of Hentz, Reid
& Adler of Atlanta for the best exhibit of domestic
architecture costing under $20,000.00. Mr. Henry
E. Harman, Jr., offers a gold medal in memory of
his father Henry E. Harman founder of the “South-
ern Architect and Building News” for the best do-
mestic architecture costing over $20,000.00. The
Southern Architect and Building News offers a gold
medal for the best public work and another
gold
medal for the best mercantile work. Mr. Milton S.
Biswanger of Biswanger & Company, glass man-
ufacturers of Memphis, offers a medal for the best
ecclesiastical work.
It is planned to make this exposition one of the
outstanding cultural events in the South. The Pres-
ident of the American Institute of Architects has
promised to he present at the opening which will he
formal and by invitation only.
The success of this exhibit depends on the efforts
of all. It cannot he put over by a few. Let each
individual member of the profession do all in his
power
to make his the outstanding exhibit and we
will show the world what we know in our hearts to
be true that the work of Southern Architects is the
“ne plus ultra” of architectural achievement.
Bayard S. Cairnes, F.A.I.A.
