yond the forest, the lodge house is seen amid a ca-
thedral of green and gray. The whitewashed brick
walls and graceful columns are strongly contrasted
with the wonderful old live oaks, magnolias and
carmelias.
Appracching the house the road takes a wide
bend, giving the visitor a full picture of the winding
river beyond the house, the golden marsh land and
pine woods across the stream. The superintendents'
cottage, stables and kennels add to its completeness.
The house is located almost on the exact spot, where
some two hundred
years ago one of the earliest man-
sions was erected. Nothing remained of the old
home hut the foundations, composed of huge Eng-
lish brick used as ballast no doubt for sailing vessels
in the earlier davs.
With such a
background the architect's
problem
of selecting a style for Mr. Dominick’s lodge house
was already determined. The house is in that style
of Colonial and Georgian Architecture so character-
istic of the Southeastern States in the early days.
Simple and sturdy lines depending entirely on mass
and proportion for its impressive effect. The main
portion consists of the two-story porch, entrance hall,
dining room and living room with an open terrace
on the river side. On the second floor in the center
are the owner’s bed rooms. There are two subordi-
nate wings, one houses the guests while the other
wing is taken up with the service. These wings are
placed at such angles that sunlight can he had to the
maximum advantage in every room.
Within the house there is an atmosphere of sim-
plicity, a
feeling of quiet and restfulness, freedom
from cares and the responsibility of many servants.
A simple Colonial stairway is the feature of the wide
hall extending through from porch to terrace. The
living room is most pleasing with its low ceiling,
deep set windows and attractive mantel with hook
shelves on either side.
Huge bricks from the foun-
dation of the house have been effectively used for
mantel facings in all rooms. The dining room, gun
room and bed rooms are all unpretentious, comfort-
able and livable. Such rooms you always found in
the fine old houses erected in those good old days
when servants were no problem and prohibition no
issue.
REAR VIEW, BAYARD DOMINICK SHOOTING LODGE
46 July, 1929
SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
