SOUTHERN
ARCHITECT
«'"> BUILDING NEWS
NUMBER 7
VOLUME 55 JULY, 1929
A Restoration Problem
By Mary Rolls Dockstader
Levy & Clarke
,
Architects
AN
architect seldom comes in contact with a
client whose appreciation and judgment of the
qualities of a really fine old piece of architec-
ture is sufficient to warrant him encouraging rather
than discouraging its duplication for
present day use.
In the case of the house which Levy & Clarke re-
cently completed for Mills B Lane, Esq., at Savan-
nah this unusual circumstance was encountered by
the architects.
j The work of the architects in handling this prob-
lem is of more than passing interest. Whether
you
find
your inspiration in the classicism of the
eighteenth century or in the modernism of the twen-
tieth, you cannot fail to he sensible of the beauty
and grace of this restoration. Dignified and refined,
with its white stucco walls, green shutters, well bal-
anced fenestration, a perfectly scaled portico and
interesting Palladian window, facing as it does the
tropical beauty of Forsyth Park it stands as a
living
tribute to the good taste of its builders and will
per-
petuate a work of architecture, noble in itself, that
no doubt will soon be swallowed
up
with the en-
croachment of commercial buildings.
The
problem presented the architects was to
duplicate as near as
possible the old house on Aber-
corn Street which is known familiarly to Savannah-
ians as the “old pink stucco” house. To more fully
understand the significance of the architects problem
and that
you might better appreciate the results as
you see them in the illustrations of the Mills B. Lane
house, a brief history of the original example from
which the architects had to work should
prove of
interest.
The lot upon
which the “old pink stucco” house
now stands was sold in 1771 by Joseph Clay for six
hundred and fifty pounds, the lot being sixty by one
hundred and eighty feet, to James Habersham, Jr.,
the son of the James Habersham who came to Geor-
gia in 1737. The senior Habersham was Secretary
of the Province, and acting governor during the ab-
sence in
England of Governor James Wright in
1771. He was also a partner in the first importing
and exporting firm of Savannah, in which business
his son, James junior, followed him.
It appears that James Habersham, Jr., did not
immediately build on this property. At the time of
building the house, the records show that Joseph
Clay built it and financed it for James Habersham
and that
up to 1789 no brick buildings stood on the
lot, but there is evidence of some frame structures.
Mr. Habersham evidently built beyond his means as
the court records tell us. Clay levied on the east half
of the lot and the brick building thereon in 1789.
So it is well established that this house was not ac-
tually built until shortly before 1790. In 1800 the
house was bought at public sale bv Hester Haber-
sham, widow of James, Jr., for $2,300. In 1802
Thomas Willing acting for the United States Bank
bought the
property for $9,000, and it was again
bought in 1811 by the Planters’ Bank of Savannah
for $15,500.
A description of the..orig.inal house will give you
a clear idea of the fidelity with which the architects
went about their work.
It is constructed of smooth stucco over brick,
two stories above a low basement, and without dor-
mers. There is a chimney at either end of a stepped
gable, and quoined corners. The doorway is unusual
—instead of the
customary six or eight-panel door
this one has a
greater number of small, square pan-
els, with fanlight above, and a lattice design at either
side formed of narrow mouldings. Above the door-
way,
and lighting the second-floor stair
landing, is
a handsome Palladian window. There is a fairly
large Doric portico with wrought-iron railings be-
tween the columns, formerly surmounted by a grace-
ful white balustrade. This must have added a pleas-
ing touch of lightness to the building’s otherwise
plain exterior.
