The Editor’s Annotations
IS YOUR WORK WORTH MORE THAN 10% ?
ALMOST
over night there has arisen along the
architectural horizon of the South a faint but
easily perceptible cloud ,not sufficient within
itself perhaps to cause any alarm or materially affect
the welfare of southern architects. However, if the
velocity of the wind should increase it is likely that
a situation will come
up whereby the whole fabric of
professional ethics in the matter of fees for archi-
tectural service might have to undergo a rather pain-
ful operation. Lhfless some step is taken before
many moons have passed over southern skies to pre-
vent this condition coming to pass, we venture the
assertion that the dark cloud will be over us long
before we are safely entrenched within our storm
cellars.
Dame rumor has been whispering into our edi-
torial ear quite persistently recently of foreign ar-
chitects coming into the South and grabbing off big
commissions that rightly belonged to southern ar-
chitects, and what’s more we are given to under-
stand their clients are boasting of the fact that they
had to pay their architect more than ten
per cent.
This does not sound so good to say the least, when
we happen to know that about the best an architect
practising in the South can do is six to eight per cent
on commercial work and eight to ten per cent on
residential jobs.
There
may
be a few architects scattered through-
out the - country who are practising architecture
purely for the love of it but you can count them on
your two hands and eliminate the thumbs altogether.
This leads us to remark that if these fellow's can come
South from the East and West and do their work
just as satisfactorily as southern men can do and
still pull a higher commission fee from their clients
then more power to them. Our observation over a
period of years is quite convincing that the work
done by local architects in cities throughout the
South stacks
up equally as well, and in more cases
than not, better than work done by foreign men
when you come right down to brass tacks and make
comparisons in cost and satisfactory performance
of the completed buildings. Then, we would like to
know why some sophisticated southern people will
go out of their
way to splurge themselves to a build-
ing they have to pay a higher per cent on when the
same work can be done for less than ten per
cent?
There seems to us to be three answers to this ques-
tion—either southern architects are not receiving a
fair price for their services or foreign architects are
being overpaid —the third answer might insult the
intelligence of somebody’s client so we will refrain
from making further comment.
There is a great amount of outside capital being
invested in the South today and perhaps it is natural
that architects from the East and West where these
investing organizations have their home office should
be given first consideration and entrusted with the
design, plan and erection of their buildings in the
South. We wonder some time if these capitalists
really do consider the economic factor involved in
engaging the service of an architectural office which
is entirely unfamiliar with climatic conditions, the
labor situation and existing material prices in the
South. We are firmly convinced from certain
expe-
riences which have been brought to our attention that
should a comparison be made of the ability of south-
ern architects and that of architects from other sec-
tions to produce a given building with a given sum
of
money,
the southern men would stand out head
and shoulders above their foreign brothers. This is
no reflection on the architects from the East or West
but it is a simple matter of being familiar with cer-
tain conditions that do in reality influence to a great
degree the actual cost of the finished structure.
Why is it that quite often when an eastern or
western architect secures a job in the South a south-
ern architect or architectural firm is named an asso-
ciate? It is because that client or that architect real-
izes that it is good economy to do so. We happen
to know of an instance where the southern associate
insisted on changing the specifications by his eastern
colleague and by doing so saved the client twenty
thousand dollars on a single item. We also know of
several cases where the architect
requested his south-
ern associate to write the specifications acknowledg-
ing that he had no earthly idea as to how it should
be done to meet certain conditions that existed here
in the South. And mind
you these instances which
we have cited are shortcomings of two of the lead-
ing architects in the East. It is sad but true that
the associate architects on these works received
only
two per cent while the architect
up
East collected a
very nice four per cent.
If foreign architects can secure a larger per cent
for their service here in the South it looks like south-
ern architects could do likewise. It’s about time
southern architects were acting as architects and not
associates on the big work.
