On the site, almost hidden by the trees stood a
little four-room cottage. Some
say
it was all of a
hundred
years
old. This cottage was made the service
portion of the house, the master’s portion being built
in front of it. The two buildings were joined by two
covered
passages
and the space thus included was
turned into an inside garden or outdoor living room.
The old cottage type presented a difficulty, in
that the low sweeping roof allowed insufficient space
for second story bedrooms, so while the general de-
tail was adhered to, the roof was given the Dutch
gambrel form, not out of harmony at all, for curi-
ously enough, a number of old Augusta houses show
a strong Dutch influence.
In the design of the house the trees were made a
vital part of the composition. At one point a wall of
one of the connecting passages
has been deliberately
built around a large oak, the same thing happens
twice at the front terrace
wall, while another tree,
with a bench around it, grows up through the east
terrace pavement. It was necessary to remove only
two trees, both small ones.
Though in general the freshly painted, kept up
appearance of the old cottage type has been pre-
served, the walls of the inner court show an inter-
esting treatment best described as antiqued white-
washed brick. Genuine old brick were used, and
the whitewash was not paint, hut real whitewash,
made durable by the addition of salt, alum, and
molasses. Mortar joints were hosed down while
green, lightly at the top, more toward the bottom,
washed hack in some cases as much as an inch. The
whitewash was applied thick. W hen still wet it was
stained with
dry color, beginning at the ground,
gradually fading out several feet up; the color, raw
and burnt sienna, burnt umber and light blue, ap-
plied with a wide brush and blended out to simulate
weather stains. After about half an hour the wall
was sprayed with a hose till patches of the half set
whitewash fell away, showing the brick. The spray-
ing was heaviest near the ground. The whole
oper-
ation was repeated several times, the final efifect be-
ing that of a wall that had been whitewashed,
weatherbeaten, whitewashed again, again weather-
beaten, and so on through the years.
In the treatment of the interior authentic Colo-
nial mouldings and detail were used throughout.
Mr. Prichard’s study is 17th century, the walls all
of beaded boards stained to simulate old unfinished
wood. The living and dining rooms are of a later
period, the woodwork enameled in soft ivory and
the walls papered. There are no ceiling fixtures. All
the lighting is by floor lamps, and a few old-fash-
ioned sconces.
EARLY AMERICAN ROOM IN HOUSE OF GILMAN PRICHARD, AUGUSTA, GA.
70 July, 1929
AND BUILDING NEWS
SOUTHERN ARCHITECT
