THE
SOUTHERN ARCHITECT
AND
BUILDING NEWS
VOLUME L. OCTOBER, 1924 NUMBER 10
DOMESTIC ARCHITECTURE OF THE SOUTH
FOREWORD .
In reviewing the Domestic Architecture of the South for the past several years, it is indeed grat-
ifying to observe the great advancement which has been made by the members of the architectural
profession in good taste, as applied to domestic design. A marked evidence of a wider and ever
growing appreciation by the laymen of the South that any house is the better for having the super-
vision of a qualified architect is encouraging.
This section of the country, like every other in America, has suffered a great shortage of homes
since the World war. The demand for homes has in fact been so great that our building public has
been forced out of pure necesity, to build and buy homes that are more or less a disgrace to our Cities,
when we look at them from an artistic standpoint. Everywhere real estate developments have been put
under way, homes have been built under the supervision of persons
that cared not or knew nothing of
the beauty of proportion or artistic details that go
to make the house in good taste. These houses
have been pushed to completion with all rapidity and put upon the market for the sole purpose of mak-
ing money and to supply the demand of the public that had to take them whether they liked them or
not. This condition has naturally flooded our cities with homes that are not desirable, homes that
have no mark of architectural refinement, homes, however, that we must believe will not be here for
many years.
In spite of such conditions, however, we find in every city, town and community, many houses
that show beyond all doubt that the South is certainly at the beginning of an artistic recovery from an
architectural standpoint. In order to more fully understand the development that is taking place and
to prophesy what will take place in the future, we should go back to the early days of the South.
In the heyday of Southern aristocracy, culture and wealth, the domestic architecture of this sec-
tion, though done mostly by gentlemen amateurs, was perhaps in better taste and showed a greater de-
gree of refinement than any of the houses built since that period. The South, however, has under-
gone a great change from an artistic and economic standpoint in the past ten years or more, and is
now at the beginning of a sincere and real artistic and economic recovery. In a recent issue of The
Architectural Record, Mr. Fiske Kimball of the University of Virginia gave some very
instructive
words on the subject of artistic recovery in the South.
Slowly but surely, in the South, artistic
recovery is following in the footsteps of economic re-
covery. In the old South, ante bellum, the arts of form, especially architectural, had flourished with
the art of living. The gentlemen amateurs of Georgia and Mississippi followed the initiative of Jeffer-
son in the design of their plantation houses. Mills, our earliest native son to train himself regularly
in the profession of architecture, was from Carolina. Strickland found his ultimate appreciation in
Tennessee. Nor was the artistic impulse of the South exhausted in classicism. It is not merely an ac-
cident that Richardson, first of Americans to turn to the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, was from New Or-
leans.
The Confederate War—as you should call it down there, if indeed you don’t say “The War
Between the States,” changed all that. The artistic center of gravity was dislocated northward.
Richardson had to find a living in Boston. It was the northern heroes of the war, Lincoln and Sher-
man and Farragut, who were the subjects of the new sculpture of St. Gaudens.
