EDITORIAL COMMENT
DEATH OF ALBERT JAMES MacDONALD.
The death of Albert James MacDonald, Ed-
itor of the Architectural Forum, August 17, 1924,
brought to a close the life of one who was a sym-
pathetic lover of architecture, a modest but ener-
getic worker, a genial and always true friend to all
whom he came in contact with.
He was critical in the choice of his material,
eager in search for something that would be of real
educational value to the architect. Alive to all new
work that was being produced, he was always
ready, as it would seem, to wait, even at the risk of
not scoring a “beat,” until the kindly hand of time
had mellowed both the building and its surround-
ings. His loss to the architectural profession will
be keenly felt.
We wish to extend our deep regret to the Rogers
& Manson Company upon
the loss of Mr. Mac-
Donald. We extend our best wishes for many
years of success to Parker Morse Hooper, now
editor of the Architectural Forum.
THE 1 7th PARIS PRIZE.
THE
Committee on Pans Prize of the Society
of Beaux Arts Architects announces the result
of the final competition for the 1 7th Pans Prize, the
donor of which is The Paris Prize Committee, Inc.
The Jury of Awards included William A. Delano,
Raymond M. Hood, Benjamin W. Morris, E. S.
Hewitt, E. F. Sanford, Jr., W. M. Kendall, Guy
Lowell, H. V. B. Magonigle, D. Everett Waid,
Arthur Loomis Harmon, R. H. Pearce, and H. O.
Milhken, Chairman.
The awards were:
Placed first, with Ist medal:
Harry K. Bieg,
Edmund S. Campbell, Patron,
Armour Institute of Technology, and
Chicago Atelier.
Placed second, with 2nd medal:
Samuel R. Moore,
Columbia University and Atelier
Hirons, New Yorl[.
Placed third, with 2nd medal:
Percival Goodman,
Atelier Licht, New Yorl
Placed fourth, with 2nd medal:
Elmer L. Babitsky,
Atelier Wynkoop-Seymour, New
Y orl?.
Hors concours:
Andrew F. Euston,
Atelier Hirons, New Yorl?.
OUR COVER FOR THIS MONTH.
The cover for this month is a view of the house
and Grounds of Andrew Calhoun, Esq., Atlanta,
Georgia. This house was designed by Hentz, Reid
& Adler, Architects of this city and one of the best
known firms in the South.
The house is of the Italian Villa type and we
would say is one of the best examples of this type
to be found anywhere in America. To Mr. Neild
Reid, of Hentz, Reid & Adler, belongs the credit
for the beautiful way in which this design has been
executed.
The grounds have not yet fully developed nor
has the hand of time had an opportunity to mellow
this building. In a few years,
time will have greatly
changed its walls, bringing out the full beauty of its
color, and mother nature will give to the gardens
that charm which will make Tryggvesson, the name
of this estate, one of the most beautiful in America.
While we would like to present this work to the pro-
fession at this time, we would much prefer to wait
until the hand of time has played its
part, and brought
out the real architectural merit which this work de-
serves. The photograph used in making this plate
was the work of Tracy Mathewson of Atlanta.
35
SOUTHERN ARCHITECT AND BUILDING NEWS
